{{Unreferenced |time=2018-03-21T13:45:50+00:00 }}

'''MIT電腦科學與人工智慧實驗室'''（{{lang-en|MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory}}，縮寫為 {{lang|en|CSAIL}}），美國[[麻省理工學院|麻省理工學院]]（MIT）的研究實驗室。

==历史==
於2003年將電腦科學實驗室與人工智慧實驗室合併後建立。位於[[史塔特科技中心|史塔特科技中心]]之中，無論是人數或是研究領域，都是美國大學中最大規模的實驗室。[[駭客文化|駭客文化]]一般認為起源於這個實驗室，多位[[圖靈獎|圖靈獎]]得主都出身於此實驗室中。

==外部链接==
* {{Official website|http://www.csail.mit.edu}} of CSAIL, successor of the AI Lab
* [http://purl.umn.edu/107281 Oral history interview with Robert M. Fano].  [[Charles_Babbage_Institute|Charles Babbage Institute]], University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
* [http://purl.umn.edu/107608 Oral history interview with Lawrence G. Roberts]. [[Charles_Babbage_Institute|Charles Babbage Institute]], University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
* [http://purl.umn.edu/107436 Oral history interview with J. C. R. Licklider]. [[Charles_Babbage_Institute|Charles Babbage Institute]], University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
* [http://purl.umn.edu/107503 Oral history interview with Marvin L. Minsky].  [[Charles_Babbage_Institute|Charles Babbage Institute]], University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
* [http://purl.umn.edu/107717 Oral history interview with Terry Allen Winograd] {{Wayback|url=http://purl.umn.edu/107717 |date=20210510045227 }}. [[Charles_Babbage_Institute|Charles Babbage Institute]], University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
* [http://purl.umn.edu/107217 Oral history interview with Wesley Clark]. [[Charles_Babbage_Institute|Charles Babbage Institute]], University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
* [http://purl.umn.edu/107230 Oral history interview with Fernando J. Corbató], [[Charles_Babbage_Institute|Charles Babbage Institute]] University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. 
* [http://mit.edu/6.933/www/Fall2001/AILab.pdf "A Marriage of Convenience: The Founding of the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory"] {{Wayback|url=http://mit.edu/6.933/www/Fall2001/AILab.pdf |date=20110514101306 }}, Chious et al. - includes important information on the [[Incompatible_Timesharing_System|Incompatible Timesharing System]].
* [http://people.csail.mit.edu/psz/LCS-75/Brochure.html  Brochure published by the MIT Lab for Computer Science (formerly Project Mac) in 1975] {{Wayback|url=http://people.csail.mit.edu/psz/LCS-75/Brochure.html |date=20200729022255 }} gives a brief historical glimpse of their activities and faces twenty years before.

{{麻省理工学院}}
[[Category:麻省理工學院|Category:麻省理工學院]]
[[Category:人工智慧史|Category:人工智慧史]]
[[Category:機器人學組織|Category:機器人學組織]]
[[Category:人工智能实验室|Category:人工智能实验室]]
[[Category:2003年建立的组织|Category:2003年建立的组织]]