--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--                              Module:Hatnote                                --
--                                                                            --
-- This module produces hatnote links and links to related articles. It       --
-- implements the {{hatnote}} and {{format link}} meta-templates and includes --
-- helper functions for other Lua hatnote modules.                            --
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

local libraryUtil = require('libraryUtil')
local checkType = libraryUtil.checkType
local mArguments -- lazily initialise [[Module:Arguments|Module:Arguments]]
local yesno -- lazily initialise [[Module:Yesno|Module:Yesno]]

local p = {}

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-- Helper functions
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

local function getArgs(frame)
	-- Fetches the arguments from the parent frame. Whitespace is trimmed and
	-- blanks are removed.
	mArguments = require('Module:Arguments')
	return mArguments.getArgs(frame, {parentOnly = true})
end

local function removeInitialColon(s)
	-- Removes the initial colon from a string, if present.
	return s:match('^:?(.*)')
end

function p.findNamespaceId(link, removeColon)
	-- Finds the namespace id (namespace number) of a link or a pagename. This
	-- function will not work if the link is enclosed in double brackets. Colons
	-- are trimmed from the start of the link by default. To skip colon
	-- trimming, set the removeColon parameter to false.
	checkType('findNamespaceId', 1, link, 'string')
	checkType('findNamespaceId', 2, removeColon, 'boolean', true)
	if removeColon ~= false then
		link = removeInitialColon(link)
	end
	local namespace = link:match('^(.-):')
	if namespace then
		local nsTable = mw.site.namespaces[namespace]
		if nsTable then
			return nsTable.id
		end
	end
	return 0
end

function p.formatPages(...)
	-- Formats a list of pages using formatLink and returns it as an array. Nil
	-- values are not allowed.
	local pages = {...}
	local ret = {}
	for i, page in ipairs(pages) do
		ret[i] = p._formatLink(page)
	end
	return ret
end

function p.formatPageTables(...)
	-- Takes a list of page/display tables and returns it as a list of
	-- formatted links. Nil values are not allowed.
	local pages = {...}
	local links = {}
	for i, t in ipairs(pages) do
		checkType('formatPageTables', i, t, 'table')
		local link = t[1]
		local display = t[2]
		links[i] = p._formatLink(link, display)
	end
	return links
end

function p.makeWikitextError(msg, helpLink, addTrackingCategory, title)
	-- Formats an error message to be returned to wikitext. If
	-- addTrackingCategory is not false after being returned from
	-- [[Module:Yesno|Module:Yesno]], and if we are not on a talk page, a tracking category
	-- is added.
	checkType('makeWikitextError', 1, msg, 'string')
	checkType('makeWikitextError', 2, helpLink, 'string', true)
	yesno = require('Module:Yesno')
	title = title or mw.title.getCurrentTitle()
	-- Make the help link text.
	local helpText
	if helpLink then
		helpText = '（[['_.._helpLink_.._'|帮助]]）'
	else
		helpText = ''
	end
	-- Make the category text.
	local category
	if not title.isTalkPage and yesno(addTrackingCategory) ~= false then
		category = '有错误的顶注模板'
		category = string.format(
			'[[%s:%s|%s:%s]]',
			mw.site.namespaces[14].name,
			category
		)
	else
		category = ''
	end
	return string.format(
		'<strong class="error">错误：%s%s。</strong>%s',
		msg,
		helpText,
		category
	)
end

function p.disambiguate(page, disambiguator)
	-- Formats a page title with a disambiguation parenthetical,
	-- i.e. "Example" → "Example (disambiguation)".
	checkType('disambiguate', 1, page, 'string')
	checkType('disambiguate', 2, disambiguator, 'string', true)
	disambiguator = disambiguator or '消歧义'
	return string.format('%s (%s)', page, disambiguator)
end

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-- Format link 格式化链接
--
-- Makes a wikilink from the given link and display values. Links are escaped
-- with colons if necessary, and links to sections are detected and displayed
-- with " § " as a separator rather than the standard MediaWiki "#". Used in
-- the {{format hatnote link}} template.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

function p.formatLink(frame)
	local args = getArgs(frame)
	local link = args[1]
	local display = args[2]
	if not link then
		return p.makeWikitextError(
			'link参数缺失',
			'Template:Format hatnote link#错误',
			args.category
		)
	end
	
	return p._formatLink(link, display)
end

function p._formatLink(link, display)
	checkType('_formatLink', 1, link, 'string')
	checkType('_formatLink', 2, display, 'string', true)
	
	-- ignore transwiki link
	if link:match('<span class="ilh-') then
		return link
	end

	-- Remove the initial colon for links where it was specified manually.
	link = removeInitialColon(link)

	-- Find whether a faux display value has been added with the {{!}} magic
	-- word.
	if not display then
		local prePipe, postPipe = link:match('^(.-)|(.*)$')
		link = prePipe or link
		display = postPipe
	end

	-- Find the display value. 
	if not display then
		local page, section = link:match('^(.-)#(.*)$')
		if page then
			display = page .. ' § ' .. section
		end
	end

	-- Assemble the link.
	if display then
		return string.format(
			'[[:%s|%s]]',
			string.gsub(link, '|(.*)$', ''), --display overwrites manual piping
			display
		)
	else
		return string.format('[[:%s|:%s]]', link)
	end
end

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-- Hatnote 顶注
--
-- Produces standard hatnote text. Implements the {{hatnote}} template.
-- 产生标准顶注文字。实现{{hatnote}}模板
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

function p.hatnote(frame)
	local args = getArgs(frame)
	local s = args[1]
	local options = {}
	if not s then
		return p.makeWikitextError(
			'text参数缺失',
			'Template:Hatnote#错误',
			args.category
		)
	end
	options.extraclasses = args.extraclasses
	options.selfref = args.selfref
	return p._hatnote(s, options)
end

function p._hatnote(s, options)
	checkType('_hatnote', 1, s, 'string')
	checkType('_hatnote', 2, options, 'table', true)
	options = options or {}
	local classes = {'hatnote', 'navigation-not-searchable'}
	local extraclasses = options.extraclasses
	local selfref = options.selfref
	if type(extraclasses) == 'string' then
		classes[#classes + 1] = extraclasses
	end
	if selfref then
		classes[#classes + 1] = 'selfref'
	end
	return string.format(
		'<div role="note" class="%s">%s</div>',
		table.concat(classes, ' '),
		s
	)
end

return p