{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Hygrocybe
| authority = (Fr.) P.Kumm. (1871)
| image = Hygrocybe coccinea and Hygrocybe virginea Rosemary Winnall.JPG
| image_caption = 猩红色的''H. coccinea''和''Chophophyllus virgineus''，英国怀尔森林
| type species = Hygrocybe conica
| type species authority = (Schaeff.) P.Kumm. (1871)
| Synonyms =
* ''Godfrinia'' <small>Maire (1902)</small>
* ''Bertrandia'' <small>R.Heim (1936)</small>
* ''Pseudohygrocybe'' <small>(Bon) Kovalenko (1988)</small>
}}

'''湿伞属'''（[[学名|学名]]：''Hygrocybe''），是[[蜡伞科|蜡伞科]]下的一个属。

==下属物种==
本属包括以下物种：<ref>{{cite web |title=Hygrocybe (Fr.) P.Kumm., 1871 |url=https://www.gbif.org/species/2523318 |website=GBIF}}</ref>
* ''Hygrocybe acuta F.H. Møller
* [[尖锥形湿伞|尖锥形湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe acutoconica'' (Clem.) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe albifolia'' (Hesler & A.H. Sm.) R. Valenz., Guzmán & J. Castillo
* ''Hygrocybe albomarginata S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe alboumbonata Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe alliciens'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe alpicola Kobayasi
* ''Hygrocybe alwisii'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe amazoniensis'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe americana'' Bessette, A.R. Bessette, Roody & W.E. Sturgeon
* ''Hygrocybe ammophila'' Singer
* [[紫湿伞|紫湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe amoena'' (Lasch) Ricken
* ''Hygrocybe andersonii'' Cibula & N.S. Weber
* ''Hygrocybe angustifolia'' (Murrill) Candusso
* ''Hygrocybe anisa'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe anomala A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe antillana'' (Pegler) Boertm.
* ''Hygrocybe apala'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler & R.W. Rayner
* ''Hygrocybe aphylla Læssøe & Boertm.
* ''Hygrocybe appalachianensis'' (Hesler & A.H. Sm.) Kronaw.
* ''Hygrocybe araucana Singer
* ''Hygrocybe arechavaletae'' (Speg.) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe arenicola Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe arnoldsii'' de Meijer
* ''Hygrocybe atro-olivacea'' (A.H. Sm. & Hesler) Bessette, A.R. Bessette, Roody & W.E. Sturgeon
* ''Hygrocybe atrosquamosa'' Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe aurantioalba'' Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe aurantiocampanula'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe aurantiocephala'' Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe aurantiorufa'' A. Pearson ex Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe aurantiosplendens'' R. Haller Aar.
* ''Hygrocybe aurantipes A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe austrolutea A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe austropratensis'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe avellana'' (Beeli) Heinem.
* ''Hygrocybe badioclavata A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe batesii'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe batistae Singer
* ''Hygrocybe biminiata Kühner
* ''Hygrocybe bipindiensis'' Henn.
* ''Hygrocybe blanda E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe blestiana Singer
* ''Hygrocybe bolensis'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe boothii'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe boriviliensis'' B.D. Sharma, S.D. Deshp. & S.G. Pradhan
* ''Hygrocybe brunnea'' (Cleland) Grgur.
* ''Hygrocybe brunneosquamosa Lodge & S.A. Cantrell
* ''Hygrocybe brunneosquamulosa Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe bubalinoviscida A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe caespitosa Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe calciphila Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe californica Murrill
* [[粉灰紫湿伞|粉灰紫湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe calyptriformis'' (Berk.) Fayod 
* ''Hygrocybe campinaranae Singer
* ''Hygrocybe cantharelliformis'' K. Syme
* [[鸡油湿伞|鸡油湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe cantharellus'' (Fr.) Murrill，舟湿伞 (≡ ''Hygrophoruscantharellus'' (Schwein.) Fr.)
* ''Hygrocybe cavipes'' E. Horak
* [[蜡质湿伞|蜡质湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe ceracea'' (Sowerby) P. Kumm.(≡Hygrophorusceraceus (Wulfen) Fr.) 
* ''Hygrocybe cerasinomutata A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe cereopallida'' (Clémençon) P. Roux & Eyssart.
* ''Hygrocybe cerinolutea E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe chamaeleon'' (Cibula) D.P. Lewis'' & Ovrebo
* ''Hygrocybe cheilocystidiata Courtec.
* ''Hygrocybe chilensis'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe chimaeroderma S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe chloochlora Pegler & Fiard
* [[蜡黄湿伞|蜡黄湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe chlorophana'' (Fr.) Wünsche，硫黄湿伞 ≡ ''Hygrophoruschlorophanus'' (Fr.) Fr.
* ''Hygrocybe chromolimonea'' (G. Stev.) T.W. May & A.E. Wood
* ''Hygrocybe chromoxantha A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe cinerascens'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe cinerea'' (Pers.) P.D. Orton & Watling
* ''Hygrocybe cinereofirma Lodge, S.A. Cantrell & T.J. Baroni
* ''Hygrocybe citrina'' (Rea) J.E. Lange
* ''Hygrocybe citrinovirens'' (J.E. Lange) Jul. Schäff.
* [[绯红湿伞|绯红湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe coccinea'' (Schaeff.) P. Kumm.
* [[绯红齿湿伞|绯红齿湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe coccineocrenata'' (P.D. Orton) M.M. Moser
* ''Hygrocybe collucera A.M. Young, R. Kearney & E. Kearney
* ''Hygrocybe comosa Bas & Arnolds
* [[变黑湿伞|变黑湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe conica'' (Schaeff.) P. Kumm.
* ''Hygrocybe conicoides'' (P.D. Orton) P.D. Orton & Watling
* ''Hygrocybe constans Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe constrictospora Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe corallina Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe corsica Candusso
* ''Hygrocybe cortinata Heinem.
* ''Hygrocybe cremicolor Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe croceolutea'' (Hongo) Hongo
* [[血色湿伞|血色湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe cruenta'' (Hongo) Hongo
* [[突顶橙红湿伞|突顶橙红湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe cuspidata'' (Peck) Murrill
* [[囊湿伞|囊湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe cystidiata Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe cystidiorubra A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe davisii'' (Peck) Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe deceptiva'' (A.H. Sm. & Hesler) Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe dimorpha'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe discolor'' (Kalchbr. & MacOwan) D.A. Reid
* ''Hygrocybe distans'' (Berk.) Bon & Chevassut
* ''Hygrocybe diversicolor'' (Petch) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe dorothyae A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe dromedensis'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe earlei'' Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe elegans E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe elegantissima'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe emeticicolor Heinem.
* ''Hygrocybe erinacea'' (Pat.) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe erinensis'' (Dennis) R. Valenz., Guzmán & J. Castillo
* ''Hygrocybe erythrocala A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe erythrocrenata Monks & A.K. Mills
* [[细鳞小湿伞|细鳞小湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe firma'' (Berk. & Broome) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe flammans'' (Berk.) A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe flammea'' (Scop.) Murrill
* [[浅黄褐湿伞|浅黄褐湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe flavescens'' (Kauffman) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe flavifolia'' (A.H. Sm. & Hesler) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe flavocampanulata S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe flavolutea Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe foliirubens Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe franklinensis'' A.M. Young & A.K. Mills
* ''Hygrocybe fuhreri'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe fuliginata E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe fuligineosquamosa'' (Cleland) Grgur.
* ''Hygrocybe fulva'' (Berk.) Manjula
* ''Hygrocybe fumosogrisea'' (E. Horak) Boertm.
* ''Hygrocybe fuscoaurantiaca'' (G. Stev.) E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe glacialis'' T. Borgen & Senn-Irlet
* ''Hygrocybe globispora Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe glutinipes'' (J.E. Lange) R. Haller Aar.
* ''Hygrocybe gomez-millasii'' Lazo
* ''Hygrocybe gregaria Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe griseoalbida Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* [[灰褐湿伞|灰褐湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe griseobrunnea T.H. Li'' & C.Q. Wang
* ''Hygrocybe griseopallida Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe griseoramosa A.M. Young, R. Kearney & E. Kearney
* ''Hygrocybe grundii'' Malloch
* ''Hygrocybe guyanensis'' Courtec.
* ''Hygrocybe hahashimensis'' (Hongo) Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe hapuuae Desjardin & Hemmes
* ''Hygrocybe hayi'' A.M. Young
* [[粉粒红湿伞|粉粒红湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe helobia'' (Arnolds) Bon
* ''Hygrocybe helvolofirma Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe hololeuca Singer
* ''Hygrocybe holoxantha E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe hondurensis'' Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe huronensis'' (A.H. Sm. & Hesler) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe hygrocyboides'' (Kühner) Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe hypholomoides Henn.
* ''Hygrocybe hypohaemacta'' (Corner) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe hypospoda A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe ignipileata Pegler
* [[稀褶黄湿伞|稀褶黄湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe imazekii'' Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe immutabilis'' (Peck) Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe inaequalis'' Velen.
* ''Hygrocybe incolor Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe indica K.P.D. Latha & Manim.
* ''Hygrocybe ingrata J.P. Jensen & F.H. Møller
* ''Hygrocybe innata'' (E. Horak) Boertm.
* [[淡湿伞|淡湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe insipida'' (J.E. Lange) M.M. Moser
* ''Hygrocybe intermedia'' (Pass.) Fayod
* ''Hygrocybe iropus A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe jackmanii'' Lebeuf, Thorn, Boertm. & Voitk
* ''Hygrocybe julietae'' (G. Stev.) E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe kandora Grgur. & A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe keithgeorgei'' (G. Stev.) E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe keralensis'' Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe kouskosii'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe kula Grgur.
* ''Hygrocybe laboyi'' S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe lactarioides Singer
* ''Hygrocybe laetissima'' (A.H. Sm. & Hesler) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe lamalama Desjardin & Hemmes
* ''Hygrocybe lanecovensis'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe laricina'' (Peck) Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe lateritiorosella'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe lepidopellis'' Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe leporina'' (Fr.) P.D. Orton & Watling
* ''Hygrocybe leucogloea A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe lilaceolamellata'' (G. Stev.) E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe lilacinella Courtec.
* ''Hygrocybe lilacinoides'' (E. Horak) Boertm.
* ''Hygrocybe lobatospora'' Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe lucida'' K. Acharya & A.K. Dutta
* ''Hygrocybe lurida'' (Berk. & M.A. Curtis) Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe lutea'' (Beeli) Heinem.
* ''Hygrocybe luteistipes'' (Dennis) S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe luteo-omphaloides Norvell, Redhead & Ammirati
* ''Hygrocybe luteoconica A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe luteoglutinosa'' (E. Horak) Boertm.
* ''Hygrocybe macrosiparia'' A. Barili, C.W. Barnes, J.A. Flores & Ordoñez
* ''Hygrocybe macrospora'' (S. Ito & S. Imai) S. Ito
* ''Hygrocybe magnifica'' de Meijer
* ''Hygrocybe manadukaensis'' Senthil., Kumaresan & S.K. Singh
* [[绯色湿伞|绯色湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe marchii'' (Bres.) F.H. Møller
* ''Hygrocybe martinicensis'' Pegler & Fiard
* ''Hygrocybe megistospora'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe melleofusca'' Lodge & Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe mellita'' Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe memorialis'' Bon & Lefebvre
* ''Hygrocybe mephitica'' (Peck) Courtec.
* [[小红湿伞|小红湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe miniata'' (Fr.) P. Kumm.，朱红湿伞 ≡ ''Hygrophorus miniatus'' (Fr.) Fr.
* ''Hygrocybe miniatoaurantiaca Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe miniatofirma S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe miniatostriata'' (S. Ito & S. Imai) S. Ito
* ''Hygrocybe miniceps'' (G. Stev.) E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe minutula'' (Peck) Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe mississippiensis'' (Cibula) D.P. Lewis'' & Ovrebo
* ''Hygrocybe mollis'' (Berk. & Broome) M.M. Moser
* ''Hygrocybe monscaiensis'' Palazón, Tabarés & Rocabruna
* ''Hygrocybe monteverdae'' Bañares & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe moseri'' Bon
* ''Hygrocybe mucilaginosa'' (Berk. & M.A. Curtis) Malloch
* [[条缘橙湿伞|条缘橙湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe mucronella'' (Fr.) P. Karst.
* ''Hygrocybe murina'' (C.J. Bird & Grund) Malloch
* ''Hygrocybe murinacea'' (Bull.) M.M. Moser
* ''Hygrocybe mutabilis'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe mycenoides'' (A.H. Sm. & Hesler) Lodge & S.A. Cantrell
* ''Hygrocybe naranjana'' Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe natarajanii'' Senthil. & Kumaresan
* ''Hygrocybe neoceracea'' Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe neofirma'' S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* [[黑湿伞|黑湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe nigrescens'' (Quél.) Kühner
* [[硝盐湿伞|硝盐湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe nitrata'' (Pers.) Wünsche
* ''Hygrocybe nivosa'' (Berk. & Broome) Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe nobilis'' Velen.
* ''Hygrocybe noelokelani'' Desjardin & Hemmes
* ''Hygrocybe noninquinans'' Lodge & S.A. Cantrell
* ''Hygrocybe nouraguensis'' Courtec.
* ''Hygrocybe obrussea'' (Fr.) Wünsche
* ''Hygrocybe occidentalis'' (Dennis) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe octayensis'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe olivaceofirma Lodge, S.A. Cantrell & Nieves-Riv.
* ''Hygrocybe olivaceoviridis'' (Hongo) Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe ortoniana'' Bon
* ''Hygrocybe ostrina'' (E. Horak) Boertm.
* ''Hygrocybe otsuensis'' (Hongo) Hongo
* [[羊臊湿伞|羊臊湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe ovina'' (Bull.) Kühner
* ''Hygrocybe ovinoides'' Lodge, S.A. Cantrell & T.J. Baroni
* ''Hygrocybe pakelo'' Desjardin & Hemmes
* ''Hygrocybe pantoleuca'' (Hongo) Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe papillata'' (Dennis) S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe paraceracea'' Bon
* ''Hygrocybe paraibensis'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe parvicoccinea'' (S. Ito & S. Imai) S. Ito
* [[细湿伞|细湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe parvula'' (Peck) Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe peckii'' (G.F. Atk.) Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe pernambucensis'' (Bat. & A.F. Vital) Putzke
* [[草地湿伞康拉德变种|草地湿伞康拉德变种]] Hygrocybe persistens var. konradii (R. Haller Aar.) Boertm. (=Hygrocybe subglobispora (P.D. Orton) M.M.Moser) 
* [[颇尔松湿伞|颇尔松湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe persoonii''
* ''Hygrocybe phaeococcinea'' (Arnolds) Bon
* ''Hygrocybe polychroma'' Bougher & A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe pomona'' (Berk.) Manjula
* [[草地湿伞|草地湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe pratensis'' (Pers.) Bon ≡ ''Camarophyllus pratensis'' (Pers.) P. Kumm. ≡ ''Hygrophorus pratensis'' (Pers.)Fr. ≡ ''Camarophyllus pratensis'' (Pers.) P. Kumm.)
* ''Hygrocybe prieta Lodge & Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe procera'' (G. Stev.) E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe proteus'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe pseudo-olivaceonigra'' Picón
* ''Hygrocybe pseudoadonis'' S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe pseudoamylospora'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe pseudococcinea'' Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe pseudocuspidata'' Kühner
* ''Hygrocybe pseudosciophana'' Heinem.
* [[青绿湿伞|青绿湿伞]] Hygrocybe psittacina'' (Schaeff.) P. Kumm. (≡Hygrophoruspsittacinus (Schaeff.) Fr.)
* ''Hygrocybe puaena Desjardin & Hemmes
* ''Hygrocybe puellaris'' (Hongo) Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe pumanquensis'' Singer
* [[红湿伞|红湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe punicea'' (Fr.) P. Kumm.，红紫湿伞 ≡ 红湿伞 ''Hygrophorus puniceus'' (Fr.) Fr.) 
* ''Hygrocybe purpurea'' (Beeli) Heinem.
* ''Hygrocybe purpureofolia'' (H.E. Bigelow) Courtec.
* ''Hygrocybe pusilla'' (Peck) Murrill
* [[安静湿伞|安静湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe quieta'' (Kühner) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe radiata Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe rajendrae U. Singh, K. Das, Uniyal & Mehmood
* ''Hygrocybe reesiae A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe reidii'' Kühner
* ''Hygrocybe rhodoleuca Singer
* ''Hygrocybe rhodophylla Kühner
* ''Hygrocybe rigelliae'' (Velen.) E. Ludw.
* ''Hygrocybe riparia Kreisel
* ''Hygrocybe rodomaculata A. Barili, C.W. Barnes & Ordoñez
* ''Hygrocybe rodwayi'' (Massee) A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe rosea Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe roseiceps Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe roseoflavida A.M. Young & A.K. Mills
* ''Hygrocybe roseopallida Lodge & Ovrebo
* ''Hygrocybe roseostriata'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe rubida K.B. Vrinda & C.K. Pradeep
* ''Hygrocybe rubra'' (Peck) Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe rubroalba Picciola, Battistin & Vizzini
* ''Hygrocybe rubrocarnosa'' (G. Stev.) E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe rubroflava Singer
* ''Hygrocybe rubrolamellata T. Borgen & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe rubrolutea A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe rubronivea A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe russocoriacea'' (Berk. & T.K. Mill.) P.D. Orton & Watling
* ''Hygrocybe salicis-herbaceae Kühner
* ''Hygrocybe saltirivula A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe sangayensis'' A. Barili, C.W. Barnes, J.A. Flores & Ordoñez
* ''Hygrocybe sanguineocrenulata A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe schistophila A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe siccitatipapillata A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe silvae-araucariae de Meijer
* ''Hygrocybe similis'' (Petch) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe singeri'' (A.H. Sm. & Hesler) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe siparia'' (Berk.) Singer
* ''Hygrocybe smaragdina Leelav., Manim. & Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe spadicea'' (Scop.) P. Karst.
* ''Hygrocybe sparsifolia T.H. Li'' & C.Q. Wang
* ''Hygrocybe splendidissima'' (P.D. Orton) M.M. Moser
* ''Hygrocybe squamulosa'' (Ellis'' & Everh.) Arnolds
* ''Hygrocybe squarrosa'' (E. Horak) Boertm.
* ''Hygrocybe stagnina Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe striatella Singer
* ''Hygrocybe striatolutea E. Horak
* ''Hygrocybe subacuta'' (Hongo) Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe subalba'' Bon & Réaudin
* ''Hygrocybe subcaespitosa'' Murrill
* [[蜡湿伞|蜡湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe subceracea'' Murrill
* [[淡朱红湿伞|淡朱红湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe subcinnabarina'' (Hongo) Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe subflavida'' Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe subheteromorpha'' Singer
* [[淡褐湿伞|淡褐湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe sublurida'' (Murrill) M. Zang
* ''Hygrocybe subminiata'' Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe subminutula'' Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe subpapillata'' Kühner
* ''Hygrocybe subpsittacina'' (Rick) Raithelh.
* ''Hygrocybe subrubra Murrill
* ''Hygrocybe substrangulata'' (P.D. Orton) P.D. Orton & Watling
* ''Hygrocybe subvitellina'' (S. Imai) S. Ito
* ''Hygrocybe sulfurea'' (G. Stev.) Boertm.
* [[朱黄湿伞|朱黄湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe suzukaensis'' (Hongo) Hongo
* [[丝旺尼湿伞|丝旺尼湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe swanetica'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe sylvaria'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe tahquamenonensis'' (A.H. Sm. & Hesler) Bessette, A.R. Bessette, Roody & W.E. Sturgeon
* ''Hygrocybe tatrensis'' Nespiak
* ''Hygrocybe tidbillensis'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe transformabilis'' Singer
* ''Hygrocybe tricolor'' (Berk. & Broome) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe tricoloroides Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe trinitensis'' (Dennis) Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe troyana Murrill
* [[粗黄湿伞|粗黄湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe turunda'' (Fr.) P. Karst.
* ''Hygrocybe umbilicata'' Hosen & T.H. Li
* ''Hygrocybe unispora'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe vallomarginata'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe venusta'' Hongo
* ''Hygrocybe verrucifer'' Velen.
* ''Hygrocybe veselskyi'' Singer & Kuthan
* ''Hygrocybe vinosa'' (Beeli) Heinem.
* ''Hygrocybe virescens'' (Hesler & A.H. Sm.) Montoya & Bandala
* [[洁白湿伞|洁白湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe virginea'' (Wulfen) P.D. Orton & Watling ≡ ''Camarophyllus virgineus'' (Wulfen) P. Kumm. ≡ ''Hygrophorus virgineus'' (Wulfen) Fr. = ''Camarophyllus niveus'' (Scop.) Wünsche
* ''Hygrocybe viridiconica A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe viridiphylla'' Lodge, S.A. Cantrell & T.J. Baroni
* ''Hygrocybe viridis'' Capelari'' & Maziero
* ''Hygrocybe viridula'' Lodge & Pegler
* ''Hygrocybe viscaurantia'' (E. Horak) Boertm.
* ''Hygrocybe viscidibrunnea'' Bougher & A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe vulpinus'' Velen.
* ''Hygrocybe waolipo'' Desjardin & Hemmes
* ''Hygrocybe watagensis'' A.M. Young
* [[威尔逊湿伞|威尔逊湿伞]] ''Hygrocybe wilsonensis'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe xanthopoda'' A.M. Young
* ''Hygrocybe zonata'' S.A. Cantrell & Lodge
* ''Hygrocybe zuluensis'' Boertm.

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_湿伞属|*]]
[[Category:_蜡伞科|L]]
[[Category:_1871年描述的分类群|L]]