{{NoteTA
|G1=Butterfly
}}
{{Automatic taxobox
| taxon = Deudorigini
| image = Close wing position of Female Rapala pheretima Hewitson, 1863 – Copper Flash WLB DSC 0024 (3).jpg
| image_caption =  [[緋爛燕灰蝶|緋爛燕灰蝶]]<br />''Rapala pheretima petosiris''♀
| authority = Doherty, 1886
| subdivision_ranks = [[屬|屬]]
| subdivision = 
共12個<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2008. Deudorigini Doherty 1886. Version 24 April 2008 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Deudorigini/111500/2008.04.24 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Deudorigini/111500/2008.04.24 |date=20180102072945 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}</ref>，詳見正文。
}}

'''玳灰蝶族'''（學名：Deudorigini）是[[灰蝶科|灰蝶科]][[線灰蝶亞科|線灰蝶亞科]]裡的一個[[族_(生物)|族]]。

== 分類 ==
'''玳灰蝶屬組'''
* [[玳灰蝶屬|玳灰蝶屬]] ''Deudorix''
* [[綠灰蝶屬|綠灰蝶屬]] ''Artipe''
* ''[[Hypomyrina|Hypomyrina]]''
* ''[[Paradeudorix|Paradeudorix]]''
* [[喜東灰蝶屬|喜東灰蝶屬]] ''Sithon''
* [[生灰蝶屬|生灰蝶屬]] ''Sinthusa''
* [[熱帶灰蝶屬|熱帶灰蝶屬]] ''Araotes''
* [[金尾灰蝶屬|金尾灰蝶屬]] ''Bindahara''
* [[燕灰蝶屬|燕灰蝶屬]] ''Rapala''
* ''[[Pilodeudorix|Pilodeudorix]]''

'''鋸緣灰蝶屬組'''
* [[鋸緣灰蝶屬|鋸緣灰蝶屬]] ''Capys''
* [[帕萊灰蝶屬|帕萊灰蝶屬]] ''Pamela''

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist|}}

== 參考 ==
* Ackery, P. R., Smith, C. R. & Vane-Wright, R. I. (ed.) 1995 Carcasson's African butterflies. Canberra: CSIRO.
* Larsen, T. B. 1991 The butterflies of Kenya and their natural history. Oxford, U. K.: Oxford University Press.
* Bridges CA. 1988. Catalogue of family-group and genus-group names (Lepidoptera: Rhopalocera). Charles A. Bridges, Urbana, IL.
* Eliot JN. 1973. The higher classification of the Lycaenidae (Lepidoptera): a tentative arrangement. Bull. Br. Mus. Nat. Hist. (Ent.) 28: 371-505, 6 pls.
* Larsen, T. B. 2005 Butterflies of West Africa. Stenstrup, Denmark: Apollo Books.
* Libert, M. 2004. Révision des Deudorix africains (Lepidoptera: Lycaenidae). Lambillionea, Tervuren, Belgium.

{{Commonscat-inline| Deudorigini}}
{{Taxonbar}}

[[Category:玳灰蝶族|*]]
[[Category:線灰蝶亞科|D]]
[[Category:1886年描述的分类群|D]]