{{medical}}
{{Drugbox
| Watchedfields = changed
| verifiedrevid = 464213440
| IUPAC_name = (''RS'')-2-(Cyclohexylcarbonyl)-1,2,3,6,7,11b-hexahydro-4''H''-pyrazino[2,1-''a'']isoquinolin-4-one
| image = Praziquantel.svg
| image2 = Praziquantel.gif

<!--Clinical data-->
| tradename = Biltricide
| Drugs.com = {{drugs.com|monograph|praziquantel}}
| MedlinePlus = a608048
| pregnancy_category = Only when clearly needed (lack of sufficient data in humans)
| legal_status = U.S.: Rx-only (human use), over-the-counter (veterinary use)[https://web.archive.org/web/20081014085523/http://www.farnampet.com/press_releases.php?id=100674]
| routes_of_administration = oral

<!--Pharmacokinetic data-->
| bioavailability = relatively small
| metabolism = hepatic
| elimination_half-life = 0.8 to 1.5 hours (Main Metabolites 4 to 5 hours)
| excretion = mainly in urine

<!--Identifiers-->
| CASNo_Ref = {{cascite|correct|CAS}}
| CAS_number_Ref = {{cascite|correct|??}}
| CAS_number = 55268-74-1
| ATC_prefix = P02
| ATC_suffix = BA01
| ATC_supplemental = {{ATCvet|P52|AA01}}
| PubChem = 4891
| DrugBank_Ref = {{drugbankcite|correct|drugbank}}
| DrugBank = DB01058
| ChemSpiderID_Ref = {{chemspidercite|correct|chemspider}}
| ChemSpiderID = 4722
| UNII_Ref = {{fdacite|correct|FDA}}
| UNII = 6490C9U457
| KEGG_Ref = {{keggcite|correct|kegg}}
| KEGG = D00471
| ChEMBL_Ref = {{ebicite|correct|EBI}}
| ChEMBL = 976

<!--Chemical data-->
| C=19 | H=24 | N=2 | O=2 
| molecular_weight = 312.411
| smiles = O=C4N2C(c1c(cccc1)CC2)CN(C(=O)C3CCCCC3)C4
| InChI = 1/C19H24N2O2/c22-18-13-20(19(23)15-7-2-1-3-8-15)12-17-16-9-5-4-6-14(16)10-11-21(17)18/h4-6,9,15,17H,1-3,7-8,10-13H2
| InChIKey = FSVJFNAIGNNGKK-UHFFFAOYAM
| StdInChI_Ref = {{stdinchicite|correct|chemspider}}
| StdInChI = 1S/C19H24N2O2/c22-18-13-20(19(23)15-7-2-1-3-8-15)12-17-16-9-5-4-6-14(16)10-11-21(17)18/h4-6,9,15,17H,1-3,7-8,10-13H2
| StdInChIKey_Ref = {{stdinchicite|correct|chemspider}}
| StdInChIKey = FSVJFNAIGNNGKK-UHFFFAOYSA-N
}}

'''吡喹酮'''（{{lang-en|Praziquantel}}，或{{lang-en|Biltricide}}）為一種用於人類及動物的[[驅蟲藥|驅蟲藥]]，專門治療[[絛蟲|絛蟲]]及[[吸蟲|吸蟲]]。對於[[血吸蟲|血吸蟲]]、[[中華肝吸蟲|中華肝吸蟲]]、{{le|Diphyllobothrium latum|Diphyllobothrium latum|廣節裂頭絛蟲}}特別有效，吡喹酮為[[世界卫生组织基本药物标准清单|世界卫生组织基本药物标准清单]]上的藥物，為世界上對於基本公共衛生最重要的藥物之一。<ref name="World Health Organization">{{cite web|title=WHO Model List of EssentialMedicines|url=http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/93142/1/EML_18_eng.pdf?ua=1|work=World Health Organization|accessdate=22 April 2014|date=October 2013}}</ref>1970年代由[[拜耳|拜耳]]公司的藥學部研發成功。

==醫療用途==

吡喹酮可以用於治療人類、哺乳類，以及魚類的寄生蟲病。包含腸胃道或是外部的感染，以下為其適用疾病：
* [[棘球蚴病|包蟲症]]：為[[包囊蟲|包囊蟲]]幼蟲所引起的感染症。
* [[豬囊尾蚴病|豬囊尾蚴病]]：為[[豬肉絛蟲|豬肉絛蟲]]幼蟲感染腦部或肌肉所引起的疾病（但在[[腦囊蟲病|腦囊蟲病]]則以[[阿苯达唑|阿苯达唑]]效果較佳）<ref name="pmid18335068">{{cite journal |author=Matthaiou DK, Panos G, Adamidi ES, Falagas ME |title=Albendazole versus Praziquantel in the Treatment of Neurocysticercosis: A Meta-analysis of Comparative Trials |journal=PLoS Negl Trop Dis |volume=2 |issue=3 |pages=e194 |year=2008 |pmid=18335068 |pmc=2265431 |doi=10.1371/journal.pntd.0000194 |url=http://www.plosntds.org/article/info:doi/10.1371/journal.pntd.0000194 |editor1-last=Carabin |editor1-first=Hélène}}</ref>
{{TransH}}

* Feline {{tsl|en|taeniasis||taeniasis}} caused in cats by gastrointestinal infection with adult tapeworms of the species ''{{tsl|en|Taenia taeniaeformis||Taenia taeniaeformis}}''; used either alone or in combination with {{tsl|en|pyrantel pamoate||pyrantel pamoate}}
* {{tsl|en|Toxocariasis||Toxocariasis}} in cats and dogs whose gut is infected with the roundworms/nematodes ''{{tsl|en|Toxocara cati||Toxocara cati}}'' or ''{{tsl|en|Toxocara canis||Toxocara canis}}'', respectively; use is often combined with pyrantel <ref name=fcp>{{Cite book
|title=Feline clinical parasitology
|last=Bowman
|first=Dwight D. 
|authorlink=
|last2=Hendrix
|first2=Charles M.
|last3=Lindsay
|first3=David S.
|last4=Barr
|first4=Steven C.
|editorn-last=
|editorn-first=
|edition=First
|volume=
|year=2002
|origyear=
|page=275
|pages=
|publisher=Iowa State University
|place=Ames, Iowa
|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=mvpsA9dGdpAC&pg=PA278&dq=%22toxocara+cati%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=s-JpT7GjFYKviALbkrnNBQ&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q=%22toxocara%20cati%22&f=false
|accessdate=
|isbn=0-8138-0333-0
|oclc=
}}</ref>
*[[血吸虫病|Schistosomiasis]] caused by [[吸虫|trematodes]] of the genus ''[[血吸虫|Schistosoma]]''.<ref name="pmid15642971">{{cite journal |author=Tchuenté LA, Shaw DJ, Polla L, Cioli D, Vercruysse J |title=Efficacy of praziquantel against Schistosoma haematobium infection in children |journal=Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. |volume=71 |issue=6 |pages=778–82 |date=December 2004 |pmid=15642971 |doi= |url=http://www.ajtmh.org/cgi/pmidlookup?view=long&pmid=15642971}}</ref>As of 2005, praziquantel is the primary treatment for human [[血吸虫病|schistosomiasis]], for which it is usually effective in a single dose.<ref name="SCP">{{Cite web | author= The Carter Center| title=Schistosomiasis Control Program | url=http://www.cartercenter.org/health/schistosomiasis/index.html |accessdate=2008-07-17}}</ref>
*{{tsl|en|Clonorchiasis||Clonorchiasis}} brought on by the Chinese liver fluke ''[[中華肝吸蟲|Clonorchis sinensis]]''<ref name="pmid17570980">{{Cite journal |author=Shen C, Kim J, Lee JK, ''et al.'' |title=Collection of Clonorchis sinensis adult worms from infected humans after praziquantel treatment |journal=The Korean Journal of Parasitology |volume=45 |issue=2 |pages=149–52 |date=June 2007 |pmid=17570980 |pmc=2526309 |doi=10.3347/kjp.2007.45.2.149 |url=http://www.parasitol.or.kr/kjp/abstracts/2007_149.html |deadurl=yes |archiveurl=https://archive.is/20121220070503/http://www.parasitol.or.kr/kjp/abstracts/2007_149.html |archivedate=2012-12-20 }}</ref>
*{{tsl|en|Paragonimiasis||Paragonimiasis}} caused by infection with lung flukes, mostly of the species ''[[衛氏肺吸蟲|Paragonimus westermani]]''{{Citation needed|time=March 2012}}
*[[布氏薑片蟲|Fasciolopsiasis]] caused by intestinal fluke ''[[布氏姜片吸虫|Fasciolopsis buski]]''<ref name="pmid16150452">{{cite journal |author=Mas-Coma S, Bargues MD, Valero MA |title=Fascioliasis and other plant-borne trematode zoonoses |journal=Int. J. Parasitol. |volume=35 |issue=11-12 |pages=1255–78 |date=October 2005 |pmid=16150452 |doi=10.1016/j.ijpara.2005.07.010 |url=}}</ref>
*''{{tsl|en|Diplozoon paradoxum||Diplozoon paradoxum}}'' and other [[吸虫|Trematoda]] infections of many fish species<ref name="NIH">{{Cite web | url=http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3615395 |title=Treatment of fish parasites. 2. Effects of praziquantel, niclosamide, levamisole-HCl, and metrifonate on monogenea (Gyrodactylus aculeati, Diplozoon paradoxum)}}</ref>
{{TransF}}

==副作用==
{{transH}}
The majority of side effects develop due to the release of the contents of the parasites as they are killed and the consequent host immune reaction. The heavier the parasite burden, the heavier and more frequent the side effects normally are.
*Central nervous system: Frequently occurring side effects are [[dizziness|dizziness]], [[頭痛|headache]], and malaise. [[Drowsiness|Drowsiness]], [[somnolence|somnolence]], [[疲倦|fatigue]], and [[眩暈_(醫學)|vertigo]] have also been seen. Almost all patients with cerebral [[囊虫病|cysticercosis]] experience CNS side effects related to the cell-death of the parasites (headache, worsening of pre-existing neurological problems, {{tsl|en|seizures||seizures}}, {{tsl|en|arachnoiditis||arachnoiditis}}, and {{tsl|en|meningism||meningism}}). These side effects may be life-threatening and can be reduced by coadministration of [[皮質類固醇|corticosteroid]]s. It is strongly recommended that all patients with cerebral [[囊虫病|cysticercosis]] are hospitalized during treatment.
*GI Tract: Approximately 90% of all patients have abdominal pain or cramps with or without nausea and vomiting. [[腹瀉|Diarrhea]] may develop and may be severe with colic. Sweating, fever, and sometimes bloody stools may occur together with diarrhea.
*Liver: Asymptomatic and transient increases of liver enzymes ([[天冬氨酸氨基转移酶|AST]] and [[谷丙转氨酶|ALT]]) are noted frequently (up to 27%). No case of symptomatic liver damage has ever been seen so far.
*Sensitivity reactions: [[荨麻疹|Urticaria]], [[疹|rash]], [[pruritus|pruritus]] and {{tsl|en|eosinophilia||eosinophilia}} in white blood cell counts
*Other locations/body as a whole: Lower back pain, myalgia, arthralgia, fever, sweating, various cardiac [[心律不整|arrhythmias]], and [[低血壓|hypotension]]

==Drug interactions==

The antibiotic [[利福平|rifampicin]] decreases plasma concentrations of praziquantel.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Ridtitid W, Wongnawa M, Mahatthanatrakul W, Punyo J, Sunbhanich M |title=Rifampin markedly decreases plasma concentrations of praziquantel in healthy volunteers |journal=Clin. Pharmacol. Ther. |volume=72 |issue=5 |pages=505–13 |date=November 2002 |pmid=12426514 |doi=10.1067/mcp.2002.129319}}</ref>

[[卡马西平|Carbamazepine]] and [[苯妥英|phenytoin]] are reported to reduce the bioavailability of praziquantel.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Quinn DI, Day RO |title=Drug interactions of clinical importance. An updated guide |journal=Drug Saf |volume=12 |issue=6 |pages=393–452 |date=June 1995 |pmid=8527014 |doi=10.2165/00002018-199512060-00005 }}</ref>

[[Chloroquine|Chloroquine]] reduces the bioavailability of praziquantel.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Masimirembwa CM, Naik YS, Hasler JA |title=The effect of chloroquine on the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of praziquantel in rats and in humans |journal=Biopharm Drug Dispos |volume=15 |issue=1 |pages=33–43 |date=January 1994 |pmid=8161714 |doi=10.1002/bdd.2510150103 }}</ref>

The drug [[西咪替丁|cimetidine]] heightens praziquantel bioavailability.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Metwally A, Bennett JL, Botros S, Ebeid F |title=Effect of cimetidine, bicarbonate and glucose on the bioavailability of different formulations of praziquantel |journal=Arzneimittelforschung |volume=45 |issue=4 |pages=516–8 |date=April 1995 |pmid=7779153 }}</ref><ref>{{cite journal |author=Jung H, Medina R, Castro N, Corona T, Sotelo J |title=Pharmacokinetic study of praziquantel administered alone and in combination with cimetidine in a single-day therapeutic regimen |journal=Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. |volume=41 |issue=6 |pages=1256–9 |date=June 1997 |pmid=9174180 |pmc=163896 |url=http://aac.asm.org/cgi/pmidlookup?view=long&pmid=9174180}}</ref>

==Mechanism of action==
The mode of action is not exactly known at present, but experimental evidence indicates praziquantel increases the permeability of the membranes of [[血吸虫|schistosome]] cells towards calcium ions. The drug thereby induces contraction of the parasites, resulting in paralysis in the contracted state. The dying parasites are dislodged from their site of action in the host organism and may enter systemic circulation or may be destroyed by host immune reaction ([[吞噬作用|phagocytosis]]). Additional mechanisms including focal disintegrations and disturbances of oviposition (laying of eggs) are seen in other types of sensitive parasites.

Another hypothesis concerning the mechanism of action of praziquantel has been recently reported. The drug seems to interfere with [[腺苷|adenosine]] uptake in cultured worms. This effect may have therapeutical relevance given that the schistosome, as the {{tsl|en|Taenia (genus)||''Taenia''}} and the ''{{tsl|en|Echinococcus||Echinococcus}}'' (other praziquantel-sensitive parasites), is unable to synthesize [[嘌呤|purine]]s such as adenosine ''de novo''.

Bayer's Animal Health Division website states, "Praziquantel is active against cestodes (tapeworms). Praziquantel is absorbed, metabolized in the liver, and excreted in the bile. Upon entering the digestive tract from the bile, cestocidal activity is exhibited. Following exposure to praziquantel, the tapeworm loses its ability to resist digestion by the mammalian host. Because of this, whole tapeworms, including the [[絛蟲綱|scolices]] (plural of "scolex"), are very rarely passed after administration of praziquantel. In many instances, only disintegrated and partially digested pieces of tapeworms will be seen in the stool. The majority of tapeworms are digested and are not found in the feces."<ref>http://bayer.naccvp.com/view_label.php</ref>

Praziquantel is administered as a racemate, but only the (''R'')-enantiomer is biologically active; the enantiomers may be separated using a resolution of an amine obtained from praziquantel.<ref name="Todd PZQ">{{cite journal | last=Woelfle | first=Michael | last2=Seerden | first2=Jean-Paul | last3=de Gooijer | first3=Jesse | last4=Pouwer | first4=Kees | last5=Olliaro | first5=Piero | last6=Todd | first6=Matthew H. | editor-last=Geary | editor-first=Timothy G. | title=Resolution of Praziquantel | journal=PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases | publisher=Public Library of Science (PLoS) | volume=5 | issue=9 | date=2011-09-20 | issn=1935-2735 | doi=10.1371/journal.pntd.0001260 | page=e1260}}</ref>

==Pharmacokinetics==
Praziquantel is well absorbed (about 80%) from the [[gastrointestinal_tract|gastrointestinal tract]]. However, due to extensive [[首过效应|first-pass metabolism]], only a relatively small amount enters systemic circulation. Praziquantel has a [[血清|serum]] [[半衰期|half-life]] of 0.8 to 1.5 hours in adults with normal renal and liver function. [[代謝產物|Metabolite]]s have a half-life of 4 to 5 hours.  In patients with significantly impaired liver function (Child Pugh classes B ll///d C), the serum half-life is increased to 3 to 8 hours. Praziquantel and its metabolites are mainly excreted renally; within 24 hours after a single oral dose, 70 to 80% is found in urine, but less than 0.1% as the unchanged drug. Praziquantel is metabolized through the [[细胞色素P450|cytochrome P450]] pathway via [[CYP3A4|CYP3A4]].  Agents that {{tsl|en|Enzyme induction and inhibition||induce or inhibit}} CYP3A4 such as [[苯妥英|phenytoin]], [[利福平|rifampin]], and [[抗真菌药|azole]] antifungals will affect the metabolism of praziquantel.

Praziquantel has a particularly dramatic effect on patients with schistosomiasis. Studies of those treated have shown that within six months of receiving a dose of praziquantel, up to 90% of the damage done to internal organs due to schistosomiasis infection can be reversed.<ref name="SCP"/>

==History==
Praziquantel was developed in the laboratories for parasitological research of [[拜耳|Bayer AG]] and [[默克集團|Merck KGaA]] in Germany (Elberfeld and Darmstadt) in the mid 1970s. 
{{TransF}}
==商品名==
*Biltricide (Bayer) 600 mg Tablets：人類使用
*Cesol (Merck) Tablets
*Cestoved (Vedco) ：藥片或注射劑，獸醫使用
*Cysticide (Merck) Tablets
*Distocide (Shin Poong Pharm. Co. Ltd) 600mg tablet：人類使用
*Distoside (Chandra Bhagat Pharma Pvt Ltd) 600mg tablet：人類使用
*Droncit (Bayer) ：獸醫使用
*Drontal (combination with {{tsl|en|pyrantel pamoate||pyrantel pamoate}}) (Bayer)：獸醫使用
*D-Worm (Farnum) for veterinary use; note that D-Worm also makes roundworm medicine containing piperidine which is not effective against tapeworms.
*Fish Tapes (Thomas Labs) for aquarium use
*Kaicide (Taiwan)
*Milbemax (combination with {{tsl|en|milbemycin oxime||milbemycin oxime}}) ([[诺华公司|Novartis]])：獸醫使用
*Popantel (Jurox)
*PraziPro (Hikari) ：水生動物飼養使用
*Praz-Tastic (NFP/National Fish Pharmaceuticals) ：水生動物飼養使用
*Pure Prazi (COTS Koi/Children of the Sun Koi)：水生動物飼養使用
*PraziPure (J.K.O., Inc. d/b/a Kodama Koi Farm & Kodama Koi Garden; licensed by COTS Koi)：水生動物飼養使用
*Profender (combination with {{tsl|en|emodepside||emodepside}}) (Bayer) ：獸醫使用
*Tape Worm Tabs (Trade Winds) ：獸醫使用
*Zentozide (Berich (Thailand) Co)

==核准狀況==
吡喹酮名列[[世界卫生组织基本药物标准清单|世界卫生组织基本药物标准清单]]之中, 是世界上对于基本公共卫生最重要的药物之一。<ref name="World Health Organization"/>

在英国，吡喹酮并未获准在人体上使用。但在必要时可以根据在患者实名的情况下进口。<ref>{{Cite web| title = Antihelmintics - Medicines for Worms; threadword, roundworm| work = Patient| accessdate = 2015-06-15| url = http://patient.info//health/antihelmintics-medicines-for-worms}}</ref>在英国吡喹酮可以作为兽用驱虫药销售。

在美国，吡喹酮被FDA批准用于血吸虫病及肝吸虫病的治疗，尽管它对其他种类的感染也有效。<ref>{{Cite book| edition = 12 edition| publisher = McGraw-Hill Education / Medical| isbn = 9780071624428| last1 = Brunton| first1 = Laurence| last2 = Chabner| first2 = Bruce| last3 = Knollman| first3 = Bjorn| title = Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, Twelfth Edition| location = New York| date = 2011-01-10}}</ref>
{{TransF}}

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Reflist|30em}}

{{-}}
{{国家基本药物目录/抗寄生虫病药}}
{{Anthelmintics}}

[[Category:驅蟲藥|Category:驅蟲藥]]
[[Category:世界衛生組織基本藥物|Category:世界衛生組織基本藥物]]
[[Category:胺類|Category:胺類]]
[[Category:內醯胺類|Category:內醯胺類]]