{{Copyedit|time=2021-04-28T17:40:41+00:00}}
[[開端章|開端章]]（[[阿拉伯語|阿拉伯語]]：{{rtl-lang|ar|سورة الفاتحة}}；[[羅馬化|羅馬化]]：Sūratu al-Fātihah）是《[[古蘭經|古蘭經]]》的第一個[[蘇拉|蘇拉]]，「開端」的中文常音譯為'''法諦海'''。整個開端章共有七節經文（[[阿亞|阿亞]]），大意是向真主祈求引導以及強調真主的[[獨一性|獨一性]]和仁慈。本章在[[穆斯林|穆斯林]][[五番拜|五番拜]]中佔有重要的地位，在每次禮拜的{{tsl|en|rak'ah||鞠躬}}中都要以本章經文為開頭。如果只計算每日五番拜所唸的開端章次數，共計17次。

==原文與譯文==
只有[[阿拉伯語|阿拉伯語]]原文的《古蘭經》才被穆斯林視為真正的《古蘭經》文本。穆斯林學者只把《古蘭經》的其他語言譯本看作詮釋用書，因為讀者不能確知譯本裡的譯文是否曲解真主的語言。

{{TOCright}}
===阿拉伯語原文===
# بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم
# الحمد لله رب العالمين
# الرحمن الرحيم
# ملك يوم الدين
# اياك نعبد واياك نستعين
# اهدنا الصرط المستقيم
# صراط الذين انعمت عليهم غير المغضوب عليهم ولا الضالين

'''1:1'''  <font color="green" size="5">{{rtl-lang|ar|﷽}}</font>


'''1:2'''  <font color="green" size="5">{{rtl-lang|ar|ٱلْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ ٱلْعَـٰلَمِينَ}}</font>


'''1:3'''  <font color="green" size="5">{{rtl-lang|ar|ٱلرَّحْمَـٰنِ ٱلرَّحِيمِ}}</font>


'''1:4'''  <font color="green" size="5">{{rtl-lang|ar|مَـالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّين}}</font>


'''1:5'''  <font color="green" size="5">{{rtl-lang|ar|إِيَّاكَ نَعْبُدُ وَإِيَّاكَ نَسْتَعِينُ}}</font>


'''1:6'''  <font color="green" size="5">{{rtl-lang|ar|‌اهدنا الصرط المستقيم}}</font>


'''1:7'''  <font color="green" size="5">{{rtl-lang|ar|صراط الذين أَنْعَمْتَ عَلَيْهِمْ غَيْرِ ٱلْمَغْضُوبِ عَلَيْهِمْ وَلَا ٱلضَّآلِّينَ}}</font>

===羅馬拼音===
# {{transl|sem|Bismillāhi r-rahmāni r-rahīm}}
# {{transl|sem|Al-hamdu li-llāhi rabbi l-ʿālamīn}}
# {{transl|sem|Ar-rahmāni r-rahīm}}
# {{transl|sem|Māliki yawmi d-dīn}}
# {{transl|sem|Iyyāka naʿbudu wa iyyāka nastaʿīn}}
# {{transl|sem|Ihdinās ṣirāṭ al-mustaqīm}}
# {{transl|sem|Ṣirāṭ al-laḏīna anʿamta ʿalayhim ġayril maġdūbi ʿalayhim walā ḍ-ḍāllīn.}}

==亚非語系==
===闪米特語族===
====希伯来語====
#בשם האל המיטיב והרחום
#הללו את האל, ריבון העולמים
#המטיב והרחום ביותר
#מלך יום הדין
#אותך בלבד אנו עובדים, רק ממך מבקשים עזרה
#הראה לנו דרך הישר
#דרכם של אלו אשר ברכת, לא אלו אשר ראויים לזעם, או את דרכם של הטועים

====阿姆哈拉語====
# በአላህ ስም እጅግ በጣም ሩኅሩህ በጣም አዛኝ በኾነው፡፡
# ምስጋና ለአላህ ይገባው የዓለማት ጌታ ለኾነው፤
# እጅግ በጣም ርኅሩህ በጣም አዛኝ
# የፍርዱ ቀን ባለቤት ለኾነው፡፡
# አንተን ብቻ እንግገዛለን፤ አንተንም ብቻ እርዳታን እንለምናለን፡፡
# ቀጥተኛውን መንገድ ምራን፡፡
# የእነዚያን በነርሱ ላይ በጎ የዋልክላቸውን በነሱ ላይ ያልተቆጣህባቸውንና ያልተሳሳቱትንም ሰዎች መንገድ (ምራን፤ በሉ)፡፡

====提格林語====
# ብስም ኣላህ እቲ ፍጹም ርህሩህ እቲ ኣዝዩ ራህራሂ
# ኩሉ እቲ ምስጋናን ውደሳን ንኣላህ ጎይታ ዓለም ይኹኖ፡ 
# እቲ ፍጹም ርህሩህ እቲ ኣዝዩ ራህራሂ
# ወናኒ መዓልቲ ፍደያን መዓልቲ ጸብጻብን
# ንዓኻ ነምልኽ፡ ካባኻ ጥራይ'ውን ሓገዝ ንጠልብ።
# ናብቲ ሰፊሕን ቅኑዕን መገዲ ሓብረና
# ናብቲ መገዲ'ቶም ጸጋ ኣዱንያን ኣኼራን ዝለገስ ካሌም፡ መገዲ'ቶም እተቖጣ ዕካሎም ኣይሁዳውያንን መገ ዲ'ቶም ጥፉኣት ክርስትያንን ዘይኮነ።

====马耳他語====
(Nistkenn f"Alla mix-Xitan il-mishut).<ref>Before reading the Holy Qur'an, this short prayer, called  'al-istigħada, is recited. </ref>

# F'Isem Alla, Kollu Ħniena, il-Ħanin.
# It-tifħir lil Alla, Sid il-ħolqien,
# Kollu Ħniena, il-Ħanin,
# is-Sultan ta Jum il-Ħaqq.
# Lilek inqimu, u lilek nitolbu għajnuna.
# Mexxina fit-triq id-dritta,
# triq dawk li xħett fuqhom il-grazzja tiegħek, u mhux ta' dawk li (ġibdu) l-għadab (tiegħek) fuqhom, u lanqas tal-mitlufin.<ref>Translation of the holy Qur'an provided by Martin R. Zammit and Muħammad el-Sadi (The Holy Qur'an, The World Islamic Call Society, 2008, p.1)</ref>

===柏柏尔語族===
====卡拜尔語====
# S yisem n Rebbi Amellay Amnahaɣ.
# Tamayt i Rebbi, mass n umeɣrad,
# Amellay Amnahaɣ,
# Agellid n wass n wesɣan.
# D keč i nettmudu, ɣur-ek la ntetter tullin;
# Welleh-aɣ s abrid amaɣud,
# Abrid n wid imi tessugteḍ tinufa, ur d wid ɣef i terfiḍ, ur d immunaf.

====塔馬齊格特語====
# S yisem n Ṛebbi, Aḥnin Itsemmiḥen.
# Ccekṛan i Ṛebbi, Mass imḍalen,
# Aḥnin Itsemmiḥen,
# Agellid n wass iqeṭṭiyen.
# D Kečč ay neɛbed, d Kečč ay netter d amɛiwen;
# Awi-aɣ d webrid iweqmen,
# Abrid n wid i Tɣateḍ, Ur n wid iK-isserfayen, neɣ n wid innetlafen.

===乍得語族===
====豪萨語====
# Da sũnan Allah, Mai rahama, Mai jin ƙai.
# Godiya ta tabbata ga Allah, Ubangijin halittu;
# Mai rahama, Mai jin ƙai;
# Mai nuna Mulkin Rãnar Sakamako.
# Kai muke bauta wa, kuma Kai muke neman taimakonKa.
# Ka shiryar da mu ga hanya madaidaiciya.
# Hanyar waɗanda Ka yi wa ni'ima, ba waɗanda aka yi wa fushi ba, kuma ba ɓatattu ba.

===庫希特語族===
====阿法爾語====
# Fulte racmattaay, gune racmatta-le yallih migaaqal qimbisa.
# Fayla qaalamiin rabbih takke.
# Fulte racmataay, gune racmatta-le rabbi.
# Gabagacsaa kee cisab ayro kobore.
# Yallaw kok-sa naqbudem mannuuy catoedde fanxam mannu.
# Mako-sinni gital nee-tiris.
# Woh isi niqmat akah tece marih gita, yallaw akah certe maraa nee maabin, kaadu hoxe mara nee maabin.

====奧羅莫語====
# Maqaa Rabbii Akkaan Mararfataa Akkaan Rahmata Godhaa Ta’eetiin.
# Faaruun hundi kan Rabbii Gooftaa aalamaati,
# Akkaan mararfataa akkaan rahmata godhaa,
# Abbaa (mootii) guyyaa murtii.
# Si qofa gabbarra; Si qofa gargaarsifannas;
# Daandii sirrii nu qajeelchi,
# Karaa warra isaan irratti tola ooltee; kan isaan irratti hin dallanaminiifi hin jallatinii (nu qajeelchi).

====索马里語====
# Magaca Eebe yaan kubillaabaynaa ee Naxariis guud iyo mid gaaraba Naxariista.
# Mahad Eebaa iska leh ee barbaariyaha Caalamka ah (Koonka).
# Ee naxariis guud iyo mid gaaraba naxariista.
# Ee hanta maalinta abaalmarinta (Qiyaamada).
# adiga unbaan ku caabudaynaa, adiga unbaana kaa kaalmo waydiisanaynaa (Eebow).
# ee nagu hanuuni jidka toosan (Xaqa).
# Jidka kuwii aad unicmaysay eedan u cadhoonin dhuminna.

==尼羅-撒哈拉語系==
===尼羅語族===
====盧歐語====
# Kuom Nying Ruoth Nyasaye ma Jares, kod Miwafu duto.
# Puoch duto mowinjore gin mag Ruoth Nyasaye ma Wuon piny ngima,
# Jang'uono kendo Jares,
# Wuon odiochieng' giko piny.
# In Kendiema walami kendo in ema wakwayo konyruok duto kuomi;
# Tlnwa e wang' yor no moriere,
# E wang' yor jogo mane Ikweyonegi bwanga ni. To ok e wang' yor jogo ma ich owang' godo kata jogo molal.

====希盧克語====
# Kiri Nying Jwøk Atang - Armø, Allah. ën a pyëwë nyi lam, ki tyëng pyëttri gën nyi lam thyëw.
# Pwøj nyi wëga Jwøk Atang Allah, Jwøk kømi labø bënë,
# Pyëwë nyi lamø ki ji bëën tyëng pyëm gën nyi lam ki ji møg thayëw,
# Arëmø mi dicyang a myi rëfëwi yidhanhø.
# Ba yi Jwøk Atang a nyi mali yi wøn, O ba yi Jwøk Arëmø a nyi pyëj yi wøn ki pë kunyø;
# Kør wøn ki yuu ba øbth,
# Yu mi tyëng a mal a yën yi gin, pëth tyëng a nëyi Gwøg yi ø cwinyi rënyë tyëng ba iyadhi ki yudø.

====丁卡語====
# Erin ke Nhialic yé du kuny ku yé du thiey.
# Ley de Nhialice pinynhom eben,
# Yéé du kuny ku yéé du thiey,
# Yen ke noŋ koom de akolcɛɛn.
# Yen ke Nhialic toŋ yoku théék ku yoku nɔɔth;
# Nywoth wook dhöl lojik,
# Dhöl kɔc ca ke gam ku acé dhöl kɔc ca ke maan goup ku ace kɔc ce maar dhöl du yic.

===撒哈拉語族===
====卡努里語====
# Alabe sun, Ramama, Kanjimalima.
# Askǝradǝ Alaro kajiwo, Kǝma alamwasobe,
# Ramama, Kanjimali mintǝama,
# Yim ngulbea kǝngantima.
# Nyi basga abatnyen, Nyi basben ngurnoga zamnyen;
# Shimosaane (yaa Kǝma) diwal sakdǝro,
# Diwal am sandiro nyamaammabe dǝro, (diwal) am sandiro gǝrgatǝgǝnabe-a bǝletana-adǝn nguro.

==尼日尔－刚果語系==
===梅尔語族===
====縢內語====
# Ka əŋɛs nga Ɔkuru-Məsaba, ɔwɔ ba ɛnɛma, yi ənəŋka.
# Ɛthɔkəs bɛ ɛyi ro rɔŋɔŋ, ɔmarəki ka ədəru bɛ,
# Ɔwɔ ba ɛnɛma-i, yiənəŋkə,
# Ɔbəi ka əŋrəi nga əngthoŋkas.
# Mun son munɔ məsə bətho ɔwa mun son munɔ məsə yifənɛ tə əmar;
# Korəsu ka ərong rəlompi,
# Ka əroŋ ra aŋɛ əŋla po sɔŋ ɛruba yəmu-i, ka aŋɛ ɔhɛ pɔnthnɛ məthɔfəl məmu-i, ɔwa yi aŋɛ ɔhɛ po sɔkar-i.

===古尔語族===
====达格巴尼語====
# Naawuni, Natitam-Lana, Nambozora yuli zuɣu.
# Paɣibu kam simdi la Naawuni, Dunianim zaa Duuma,
# Natitam-Lana, Nambozora,
# Zaa Dali Duuma.
# A kɔ ka ti jɛmda, A kɔ yaha ka ti suhira mbɔri sɔŋsim;
# Dolsim ti yɛlmaŋli soli zuɣu;
# So shɛli zuɣu A ni daa dolisi A ni daa niŋ anfaani niŋ shɛb la, ban daa bi tum A taali la, ni ban daa bi birigi la.

====达加雷語====
# Aneng Daana yuori, Tɔrekuro, Sanyaora.
# Daanang so pɛgebo, bon-la-bong-jaa Daana,
# Tɔrekuro, Sanyaora,
# Sanyao Daare Daana.
# E yong teng tina, E yong meng sɛng la teng boɔra sombo;
# Wuli te sɔbi-toruu,
# Bana ne E ang eng neɛma ne sɔreng, bana ne E suuri ang ihi ba engang ne naane, bana ne meng ang bɔre ne naane.

===曼德語族===
====门德語====
# Ngewɔ waa Ngi biyɛi hu, kpekpe ya Mahawai, Maanuma Mahawai.
# Tatoi kpɛlɛɛ Ngewɔ lɔ Ngi woole, Tamia nduunyɛi kpɛlɛɛ ti yewɔɛ a Ngie,
# Taa kpekpeya Mahawai a Ngie, Taa Maanuma Mahawai a Ngie,
# Taa gbɔma Tovoleima Mahawai a Ngie.
# Bia yaakpelɔ mua hɛɛ Bi ma, tao Bia yaakpe lɔ mua Bi maanɛnɛ kpɔma vaa;
# Mu lo pele wɔɔnei ma,
# Pelei yeena wɔɔ Bi nasia loni ma Bi gbekpeni a tie, nasia wɔɔ tii lumani Baa liilee tima, nasia wɔɔ tii ngakani Bi ma.

====曼丁哥語====
# Mbe a foloo la Ala too la, hiinantuŋo fodindisirewo.
# Tentoo bee be Ala ye daafeŋolu bee maariyo,
# Hiinantuŋo fondinsirewo,
# Kiiti luŋo Maariyo.
# Nka idanmaa le batu aniŋ nka deemaaroo ñini idan maa le bulu;
# Nkandandi sila tilindinŋo kaŋ,
# Moolu la siloo i neemata menuma, mennu maŋ ikanfandi aduŋ imaŋ fili.

====迪乌拉語====
# Ala tɔgɔ la, nɛma tigi, hine tigi.
# Tando bɛɛ lajenin be Ala ta ye, dunuya bɛɛ masa,
# Nɛma tigi hinɛ tigi,
# Kiyamalon kiti tigi.
# An bɛ ile kelen le bato, ani an bɛ dɛmɛnyini kɛ ile kelen le fɛ;
# An lakana ka blasiranyuman kan,
# I ye hɛrɛ kɛ minnu ye olu ta sira, I ya jankata wajibiyala mɔgɔ minnu kan, an tɛ ni olugu ta sira ye, an tɛ ni mɔgɔw ta sira ye fana, minw ye filibagancew ye.

====克培列語====
# Mὲlɛ-Seei da màlóŋ káai Ɣâla laai su.
# Ɣâla a Ŋeniɛ-nai kélee nâmu laa-maa tέ kélee káa a Bɔ́ɔ,
# Mὲlɛ-Seei, da Màlóŋ káai,
# Mɛni-ŋa tee Ŋelei Nâmu.
# Yá tɔnɔ nɔ bé kwa fɛli a kέ ni Yá tɔnɔ nɔ bé kwa mare-kέ kpɔng-maa mɛni ma;
# Kúmɛni káa pere sã́a su,
# Lûa kέ ɓerei ma Nûai mɛni ma da sia ma, a kέ ni lûa kέ Nuai dia ilii Ŋwânaai fé dia, da mûai di fé ni kúla ni ipere ma.

====蘇蘇語====
# M'bara n'ma kharangni fölö Allah khilîra, dounouya nȇmè kangni, lâkhira nȇmè kangni.
# Tantoui kamalikhi na Allah bè dâlisé birin makhourou Manguè,
# Dounouya nȇmè kangni, lâkhira nȇmè kangni,
# Aliguiyâma saréfi-lökhöè ragatakhi Manguè nakhan yîra.
# Moukhou itan Allah kérén nan batou-ma, moukhou man mâli fémma itan Allah kérén nan-na;
# I-kha moukhou matinkhin kira tinkhin-mè khömma,
# N'mikhié kha kira nan ma ibara nȇmè nakhé-ma, n'mou mikhié kha kira madé ibara khönö nakhé-ma, anoun ibara nakhé ra löè (nakhéé bara nondi to éfa tondi a soukhou-dé).

====瓦伊語====
# Kamba tɔɛ ɓa ka le mu ɓɛlɛ ɓɛlɛ ja kɛɛ kini je manja mu a la.
# Kamba wa ta mu tanɗo gbi loc, manja mu ta mu ɓanɗaa ɓɛ lumaa la,
# Ɓɛlɛ ɓɛlɛ jaa ɓɛ kini je manjaa, kiti tiyɛ manjaa,
# Kiti tiyɛ manjaa sina, sɔ sɔ te le ma.
# Iwa lɔɔmu mu yɛ I koloya, amu mu yɛ Iwa lɔtusaa ɓa sa la kola;
# Mu sɔ kila taŋɗe ma,
# Kila mu ya mɔɛ nu sɔu ama amu ya kini jee tia anu ma, mɔmunu a i laah kulɛɛ ɓɔ a lɔ, amu anu ma ti mɔ samalenu ko.

===瓜語族===
====契維語====
# Allah, Ɔdomfoɔ, Mmɔborɔhunufoɔ no din mu.
# Ayɛyie nyinaa wɔ Allah ewiase nyinaa Awurade no,
# Ɔdomfoɔ, Mmɔborɔhunufoɔ no,
# Atemmu Da no Wura.
# No nkoaa na yɛsom Woɔ, na Wo nkoaa hɔ na yɛsrɛ mmoa;
# Kyerɛ yɛn kwan tenenee no,
# Wɔnom a Wode W'adom agu wɔn soɔ no kwan no - ɛnnyɛ wɔnom a abufuo wɔ wɔn soɔ no, na ɛnnyɛ wɔnom a wɔayera no.

====方提語====
# Mehyɛ ase wɔ Ɔdomfo, Mbɔbɔrhufo Nyankopɔn no Ne dzin mu.
# Ayɛyi nyinara yɛ Nyankopɔn dze, Ɔno a Ɔyɛ wiadze nyinara Wura,
# Ɔdomfo, Mbɔbɔrhufo No a,
# Atsɛmbuada Wura.
# Wo nkotonoo na yɛsom Wo, na Wo nktonoo na yɛhwehwɛ Wo nkyɛn mboa;
# Kyerɛ hɛn kwan tsenenee no,
# Hɔn a Awora wo nhyira egu hɔn do no hɔn kwan no a, na nnyɛ hɔn a wɔatwetwe W'ebufuw hyew akɔ hɔn do nye hɔn a wɔatɔ dɔnsuar no hɔn kwan no bi a.

====嘎語====
# Yɛ Nyɔŋmɔ drolɔ kɛ mɔbɔnalɔ lɛ gbɛi amli.
# Yidziemɔ aha Nyɔŋmɔ, dzeŋ fɛɛ Nuŋtsɔ lɛ,
# Drolɔ kɛ mɔbɔnalɔ lɛ,
# Kodzomɔ gbi lɛ nɔ mantsɛ.
# Bo pɛ dzi mɔni wɔ dzaa, ni bo nɔŋŋ odeŋ wɔ baa wamɔ kɛdzɛɔ;
# Kudɔmɔ wɔ kɛ nyiɛ dzalɛ gbɛ lɛ nɔ,
# Dzalɛ gbɛ ni mɛi ni okɛ odzɔɔmɔ dzrɔ lɛ dzɔɔ amɛ lɛ tsɔ nɔ lɛ, mɛini efee noko ni baaha ona mlifu oha amɛ, ke mɛi ni eduu gbɛ lɛ.

====巴烏萊語====
# Nyanmiɛn b'o i klun ti ufue, b'o si aunvuɛ'n dumman nun.
# Kannvulɛ kwlakwla ɔ ti Nyanmiɛn mɔn sie mɛn muan'n i liɛ,
# Klun ufuefuɛ, aunvuɛ sifuɛ,
# Ndɛ kanlɛ cɛn famiɛn.
# Wɔ kunngba yɛ e koto e srɛ wɔ-ɔ, wɔ kunngba cɛ yɛ e kpata wɔ nan a wuka e;
# Kle e atin ngɛ ɔti kpa'n,
# Atin ngɛ a kleli wɔ klofuɛ mun'n, nan kle e atin nga wɔ kpɔfuɛ nin mlinfuɛ me fali su'n.

====阿波罗語====
# Nyamenle duma nu, Dovolɛ, Anwunvonezɛlɛ-nli.
# Ayɛlɛ-yɛlɛ muala le Nyamenle ɛdeɛ, ewiade amuala Awulae,
# Dovolɛ Anwunvonezɛlɛ-nli ne,
# Tumivolɛ wɔ ndɛne ɛbualɛ kenle ne.
# Engome kye a, yɛsonle a, yɛɛ ɛngome-kye yɛɛ yɛkpondɛ moalɛ wɔɔ wɔ ɛkɛne a;
# Kile yɛ adenle fɔɔnwo ne,
# Adenle ne mɔɔ menli bie vale zo a, Wɔ ɛlolɛ ne rale bɛnwo zo la, tɛ menli mɔɔ beɛ hwewenle wɔ ɛya bɛrale bɛnwo zo la yɛɛ tɛ menli mɔɔ bɛ minli la adenle ne ɔ.

===塞內岡比亞語族===
====富拉語====
# En puɗɗirii innde Alla jom hinney kuuɓuɗo jom hinney keeriiɗo.
# Yettoore woodani Alla jom tageefooji,
# Jom hinney kuuɓuɗo jom hinney keeriiɗo,
# Marɗo nyannde diina (darngal).
# Aan tan men ndewata wo Aan tan men ɗaɓɓirta mballa;
# Handa men laawol dartiingol,
# Laawol ɓeen ɓe neeminɗa dow muɓɓen, ɓe ngana tikkanaaɓe wanaa majjinaaɓe.

====沃洛夫語====
# Benn Senn Menn la Raax Menn Raax Yërëm.
# Màggal Yàlla Buuru dunyaa,
# Raax Menn Raax Yërëm,
# Buuru bésu sëddale ba.
# Yaw la ñuy jaamu, yaw la ñuy ñaan ndimmël;
# Teg ñu ci yoon wi jub,
# Ci yoonu ñi nga béggale say mbaax, ñi la merloowul te réeruñu.

===班圖語族===
====斯瓦希里語====
# Kwa jina la Mwenyezi Mungu mwingi wa rehema mwenye kurehemu.
# Sifa njema zote ni za Mwenyezi Mungu, Mola Mlezi wa viumbe vyote;
# Mwingi wa Rehema Mwenye Kurehemu;
# Mwenye Kumiliki Siku ya Malipo.
# Wewe tu tunakuabudu, na Wewe tu tunakuomba msaada.
# Tuongoe njia iliyo nyooka,
# Njia ya ulio waneemesha, siyo ya walio kasirikiwa, wala walio potea.

====基隆迪語====
# Kw'izina ry'Imana nyene Imigisha myinshi, na nyene Imigisha mito mito.
# Ndakengurukiye Imana, Umuremyi w'ibiremwa vyose,
# Nyene Imigisha myinshi, na nyene Imigisha mito mito,
# Nyene inganji y'umusi w'imperuka.
# Niwewe dusenga, kandi niwewe dusaba imfashanyo;
# Turongore munzira igororotse,
# Inzira yabo wahaye imigisha kuribo, kandi atari mubashavuriwe kuribo, canke mubazimiye.

====盧旺達語====
# Ku izina ry’Imana Nyirimpuhwe Nyiribambe.
# Ibisingizo byuzuye byose ni iby’Imana umurezi w’ibiremwa byose,
# Nyirimpuhwe Nyiribambe,
# Umwami w’umunsi w’ibarura.
# Ni wowe gusa dusenga kandi ni wowe gusa twambaza;
# Tuyobore inzira igororotse,
# Inzira y’abo wahaye ingabire, ntibe iy’ababandi barakariwe cyangwa iy’abayobye.

====紹納語====
# Muzita raAllah, Vane Tsitsi, vane Ngoni.
# Kurumbidzwa nekutendwa kwese ngakuve kuna Allah, Tenzi venyika dzese,
# Vane Tsitsi zhinji, neNgoni zhinji,
# Muridzi (Mutongi)wezuva rekutongwa (zuva rekumutswa kwevakafa). 
# Imi moga ndimi vatinonamata, uye imi mega ndimi vatinokumbira rubatsiro (rwazvose);
# Titungamirirei munzira yakatwasuka,
# Nzira yeavo vamakapa makomborero (vatumwa, maporofita, nevaiti vezvakanaka), kwete nzira yeavo vamakatsamwira, kana yeavo vakarasika.

====本巴語====
# Mwishina lya kwa Lesa, Umwine wa mapalo yonse, Umwine wa luse lonse.
# Ululumbi lonse lusuma lwakwa Lesa kabumba wa fibumbwa fyonse,
# Umwine wa mapalo yonse, Umwine wa luse lonse,
# Kateka wabushiku bwa malipilo.
# Niwefye tupepa kabili niwe fye tulomba ubwafwilisho;
# Ututungulule munshila iyaololoka.
# Inshila ya balwa wapele ubukata, teya balya abowafu lilwa nangu iyabalya abaluba.

====齊切瓦語====
# M'dzina la Mulungu Wachifundo Chambiri, Wachisoni.
# Kutamandidwa konse nkwa Mulungu Mbuye Wa zolengedwa zonse;
# Wa chifundo chambiri, Wachisoni;
# Mwini tsiku lachiweruzo.
# Inu nokha tikukupembedzani, ndiponso Inu nokha tikukupemphani chithandizo;
# Tiongolereni kunjira yoongoka,
# Njira ya omwe mudawapatsa chisomo; Osati ya amene adakwiyiridwa (ndi Inu) Osatinso ya omwe adasokera.

====齊瑤語====
# M'zina la Allah, Wachisomo Wosonipa.
# Alemekeze Allah Mbuye wa Makhamu,
# Wachisomo Wosonipa,
# Mfumu ya Tsiku la Chiweruzo.
# Inu nokha (Ambuye) tikukupembedzani (Mowona Mtima) ndipo, tikupempha Chitandizo chanu;
# Titsogolereni ku choonadi Changwiro,
# Choonadi cha iwo omwe M'dawadalitsa iwo amene sadawone mkwiyo wanu, ndipo sadalowerere.

====盧希亞語====
# Mulira lia Nyayase owetsimbabaasi owobukoosia.
# Oluyali lwosi ni lwa Nyayase, omulesi webiloonje bioosi,
# Owetsimbabaasi owobukoosia,
# Omwami we yinyanga yomurungo.
# Newesa wakhulamaanga, naninewesa wakhwenyangakhwo obukhoonyi;
# Okhulunjisie khunjila ingololofu,
# Injila yabalia abawahelesia isimbabaasi, ilali yabalia abasinyishilwa nohomba yabalia abakora tawe.

====基庫尤語====
# Rĩitwa-inĩ rĩa Ngai Mwene-Hinya-Wothe, Muuma-andũ, Ũiyũ-irwo nĩ tha.
# Ũgooci wothe nĩ wa Ngai Mwene-Hinya-Wothe, Mwathani wa thĩ yothe,
# Ũrĩa Muuma-andũ, Ũiyũ-irwo nĩ tha,
# Mwathi wa mũthenya wa Ituĩro.
# O Wee wiki nowe tũhoyaga, na Wee wiki nowe tũkayagĩra ũtũteithie;
# Tũtongorie na njĩra ĩrĩa yere-kereire,
# O njīra ya aria Wee ũtũgĩte no ti njĩra ya arĩa ũrakarĩire kana ya arĩa mũũrĩte.

====基康巴語====
# Syĩtwanĩ ya Ngai Mwene Vinya W'onthe, Ũla Usũĩtwe nĩ Ũlau, Usũĩtwe nĩ tei.
# Ndaĩa syonthe nĩ sya Ngai Mwene Vinya W'onthe, Mwĩai wa nthĩ syonthe,
# Ũla Usũĩtwe nĩ Ũlau, Usũĩtwe nĩ tei,
# Mwĩai wa Mũthenya wa ũtwio.
# We wĩ weka Nue ithyĩ tũthaithaa na We wĩ weka Nue ithyĩ twĩtasya ũtethyo;
# Tũtongoesye nzĩanĩ ĩla ya w'o--
# Nzĩa ya asu ala We ũmanengete maũathimo Maku, asu ala matakwatĩtwe nĩ Ũthatu, na asu ala mate athyoeku.

====基剛果語====
# Na nkumbu ya Nzambi, kena gracia mpe kena nkenda,
# Kembela Nzambi me kusala ntoto,
# Nzambi ya ngracia mpe na nkenda,
# Mfumu ya kilumbu ya nsuka.
# Ngeye Nzambi beto ke kunda mpenge kaka beto kebokila samu na kusadisa beto;
# Nata beto na nzila ya mbote,
# Nzila nge me pesa mambu ya mbote, kasi na nzila ve ya bantu me baka nganzi, mpe bantu me zimbana.

====塞索托語====
# Ka lebitso la Modimo (`Mopi), Ea Lereko, Ea Mohau.
# Lithoriso tsohle li be ho Modimo (`Mopi), Mong`a Mafats’e,
# Ea Lereko, Ea Mohau.
# Mong`a Letsatsi la Kahlolo,
# Ke Uena Ea mong Eo re Mo khumamelang; Eo re kopang thuso ho Eena.
# Re tataisetse tseleng e otlolohileng,
# Tsela ea bao U ba hlohonolofalitseng; Eseng tsela ea ba ipiletsang khalefo ea Hau, ba khelohileng.

====盧幹達語====
# Ku lw'erinnya lya Katonda, Omusaasizi ennyo, Ow'ekisa ekingi.
# Amatendo gonna amalungi ga Katonda, Mukama w'ebitonde byonna;
# Omusaasizi ennyo, Ow'ekisa ekingi;
# Mukama w'olunaku lw'okulamulirwako.
# Ggwe wekka GGwe tusinza era Ggwe wekka Ggwe tusaba obuyambi;
# Tulung'amye mu kkubo eggolokofu,
# Ekkubo ery'abo be wawa ebyengera, eritali ly'abo abaasunguwalirwa, wadde abaabula.

====林加拉語====
# Okombo ya Nzambe nta boboto mpe ngolu. 
# Matondi na Nzambe nkolo ya mikili. 
# Atonda mawa mpe boboto,
# Mokonzi ya mokolo ya kokata  makambo. 
# Yonde nzambe lozali kosambela mpe epai nayo tozali kosenga lisalisi; 
# Kamba biso na nzela ya nsemba,
# Nzela ya baye bazwa bolamu nayo Ezalate nzela ya baye Osilikela Bango ezala mpete nzela ya baye habunga.

====茨瓦納語====
# Mo leineng la Modimo oo mosa oo kutlwelobotlhoko.
# A go bakwe Modimo Morena wa mafatshe,
# Oo mosa oo kutlwelobotlhoko,
# Morena wa letsatsi la katlholo.
# Ke wena ka nosi re go rapelang le wena ka nosi re go lopang thuso;
# Re bontshe tsela ya tshiamo,
# Tsela ya ba o ba tshegofaditseng e seng ya bao ba bonang katlholo ya gago, le e seng ya bao ba yang tatlhegong.

====科薩語====
# Egameni likaQamata, uSolubabalo, uSozinceba.
# Iindumiso (zonke) mazibe kuQamata iNkosi, uMlondolozi wamazwe.
# USolubabalo, uSozinceba.
# UMlawuli weMini yoMgwebo.
# NguWe (Wedwa) esiMnqulayo, nguWe Wedwa esicela uncedo kuYe.
# Sikhokelele eNdleleni ethe Tye,
# INdlela yabo uBabalo lwaKho lwaba phezu kwabo, hayi kweyabo ingqumbo (yaKho) yaba phezu kwabo, ingabi yiyo neyabo balahlekayo.

====祖魯語====
# Egameni likaUnkulunkulu Onomusa, Onesihawu.
# Udumo malube kuUnkulunkulu, umdali nomondli wamazwe onke. 
# Onomusa, Onesihawu. 
# Mbusi wosuku lokwahlulela.
# Nguwena kuphela esimkhonzayo, futhi kuWwna wedwa sicela usizo. 
# Siholele endleleni eqondile,
# Indlela yalabo owabehlisela umusa wakho, kungabi yindlela yalabo abehlelwa wulaka lwakho, noma iabo abedukayo.

===剛果－尼日爾語族===
====伊博語====
# N’aha Chukwu, Onye Ebere, Onye Ọmiko.
# Otuto niile dịrị Chukwu, onye nwe ụwa dum, 
# Onye Ebere, Onye Ọmiko,
# Onye isi nke Ụbọchị Ikpe.
# Sọ Gị ka anyị na-ekpere, sọ Gi kwa ka anyị na-arịọ enyemaka
# Duo anyị n'ụzọ nke ezi omume 
# N'ụzọ nke ndị I wụkwasiworo ngozi Gị, ndị nataworo ọdịmma Gị, ndị na-agahiebeghị ụzọ Gị.

====約魯巴語====
# Ni oruko̩  O̩lo̩hun Ajo̩ke̩ aiye, As̩ake̩ o̩run
# Gbogbo o̩pe̩ ti O̩lo̩hun ni,  Oluto̩ju gbogbo e̩da
# Ajo̩ke̩ aiye, As̩ake̩ ọrun
# Olukapa o̩jo̩ idajo̩
# Ire̩ nikan ni awa yio ma sin, o̩do̩ Re̩ nikan ni a o ma to̩ro̩ iran lo̩wo̩
# To̩ wa si o̩na tārà
# O̩na awọn e̩niti Ose ide̩ra Re̩fun, pe̩lu tite̩le as̩e̩ Re̩ ati ijo̩sin fun E̩  laije̩ o̩na awo̩n ti Obinu Si, be̩ni laije̩ o̩na awo̩n ti nwo̩n sina

====埃維語====
# Le Mawu Dɔmenyotɔ kple Nublanuikpɔla ƒe ŋkɔme.
# Kafu kafu na Mawu xexeawo kata ƒe aƒetɔ,
# Dɔmenyotɔ, Nublanuikpɔla,
# Woenye fia le ʋɔnudrɔgbe ŋkeke la dzi.
# Wò subɔm miele, wò xɔname biam miele;
# Dzɔmi ɖe mɔdzɔdzɔetɔ la dzi,
# Amesiwo ne nyo dɔmena la ƒe mɔdzi, me nye amesiwo ŋuti nedo dɔmezuido alo amesiwo bula ƒe mɔ o.

==達羅毗荼語系==
===马拉雅拉姆語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

#പരമദയാലുവും കരുണാവാരിധിയുമായ അല്ലാഹുവിന്റെ നാമത്തില്‍.
#സര്‍വലോകത്തിന്റെയും റബ്ബായ അല്ലാഹുവിനു മാത്രമാകുന്നു സ്തുതി,
#അളവറ്റ ദയാപരനും കരുണാവാരിധിയുമാണവന്‍,
#പ്രതിഫലദിവസത്തിനധിപനാണവന്‍.
#നിനക്കുമാത്രം ഞങ്ങള്‍ ഇബാദത്തുചെയ്യുന്നു, നിന്നോടുമാത്രം ഞങ്ങള്‍ സഹായം തേടുന്നു;
#നീ ഞങ്ങളെ നേര്‍വഴിയില്‍ നയിക്കേണമേ! 
#നീ അനുഗ്രഹിച്ചവരുടെ മാര്‍ഗത്തില്‍; കോപത്തിനിരയായവരുടെയും വഴിപിഴച്ചവരുടെയും മാര്‍ഗത്തിലല്ല.
{{col-2}}

#Paramadayāluvuṁ karuṇāvāridhiyumāya Allāhuvinṟe nāmattil.
#Sarvalēākattinṟeyuṁ ṟabbāya Allāhuvinu mātramākunnu stuti,
#Aḷavaṟṟa dayāparanuṁ karuṇāvāridhiyumāṇavan,
#Pratiphaladivasattinadhipanāṇavan.
#Ninakkumātraṁ ñaṅṅaḷ ibādattuceyyunnu, ninnēāṭumātraṁ ñaṅṅaḷ sahāyaṁ tēṭunnu; 
#Nī ñaṅṅaḷe nērvaḻiyil nayikkēṇamē! 
#Nī anugrahiccavaruṭe mārgattil; kēāpattinirayāyavaruṭeyuṁ vaḻipiḻaccavaruṭeyuṁ mārgattilalla.
{{col end}}

===泰米尔語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
#அளவற்ற அருளாளன், நிகரற்ற அன்பாளன், அல்லாஹ்வின் பெயரால்! (தொடங்குகிறேன்).
#அனைத்துப்புகழும், அகிலங்கள் எல்லாவற்றையும் படைத்து வளர்த்துப் பரிபக்குவப்படுத்தும் (நாயனான) அல்லாஹ்வுக்கே ஆகும்,
#(அவன்) அளவற்ற அருளாளன், நிகரற்ற அன்புடையோன்,
#(அவனே நியாயத்) தீர்ப்பு நாளின் அதிபதி(யும் ஆவான்).
#(இறைவா!) உன்னையே நாங்கள் வணங்குகிறோம், உன்னிடமே நாங்கள் உதவியும் தேடுகிறோம்;
#நீ எங்களை நேர் வழியில் நடத்துவாயாக!
#(அது) நீ எவர்களுக்கு அருள் புரிந்தாயோ அவ்வழி, (அது) உன் கோபத்துக்கு ஆளானோர் வழியுமல்ல, நெறி தவறியோர் வழியுமல்ல.
{{col-2}}
#Aḷavaṟṟa aruḷāḷaṉ, nikaraṟṟa aṉpāḷaṉ, Allāhviṉ peyarāl! (toṭaṅkukiṟēṉ).
#Aṉaittuppukaḻum, akilaṅkaḷ ellāvaṟṟaiyum paṭaittu vaḷarttup paripakkuvappaṭuttum (nāyaṉāṉa) Allāhvukkē ākum,
#(Avaṉ) aḷavaṟṟa aruḷāḷaṉ, nikaraṟṟa aṉpuṭaiyōṉ,
#(Avaṉē niyāyat) tīrppu nāḷiṉ atipati(yum āvāṉ).
#(Iṟaivā!) uṉṉaiyē nāṅkaḷ vaṇaṅkukiṟōm, uṉṉiṭamē nāṅkaḷ utaviyum tēṭukiṟōm.
#Nī eṅkaḷai nēr vaḻiyil naṭattuvāyāka!
#(Atu) nī evarkaḷukku aruḷ purintāyō avvaḻi, (atu) uṉ kōpattukku āḷāṉōr vaḻiyumalla, neṟi tavaṟiyōr vaḻiyumalla.
{{col end}}

===泰盧固語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

# ప్రారంభించుచున్నాను కరుణామయుడు మరియు కృపాశీలుడైన అల్లాహ్ పేరుతో
# సకల లోకాల ప్రభువా నీకే మా స్తోత్రములు,
# అనంత కరుణామయుడా!, అపారక్రుపాశీలుడా!
# తీర్పు దినపు యజమానీ!
# మేము నిన్నే ఆరాధిస్తాము. సహాయం కోసం నిన్నే అర్ధిస్తున్నాము.
# మాకు రుజుమార్గం చూపించు.
# నీవు దీవించిన వారి మార్గం, నీ ఆగ్రహానికి గురి కాని వారి మార్గం, మార్గభ్రష్టులు కాని వారి రుజుమార్గం మాకు చూపించు.
{{col-2}}

# Prārambhin̄cucunnānu karuṇāmayuḍu mariyu kr̥pāśīluḍaina Allāh pērutō
# Sakala lōkāla prabhuvā nīkē mā stōtramulu,
# Ananta karuṇāmayuḍā!, Apārakrupāśīluḍā!
# Tīrpu dinapu yajamānī!
# Mēmu ninnē ārādhistāmu. Sahāyaṁ kōsaṁ ninnē ardhistunnāmu;
# Māku rujumārgaṁ cūpin̄cu,
# Nīvu dīvin̄cina vāri mārgaṁ, nī āgrahāniki guri kāni vāri mārgaṁ, mārgabhraṣṭulu kāni vāri rujumārgaṁ māku cūpin̄cu.
{{col-end}}

===卡納達語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

# ಪರಮ ದಯಾವಂತನೂ ಕಾರುಣ್ಯನಿಧಿಯೂ - ಆದ ಅಲ್ಲಾಹನ ನಾಮದಿಂದ (ಪ್ರಾರಂಭಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ).
# ಎಲ್ಲ ಸ್ತುತಿ ಸರ್ವ ಲೋಕಗಳ ಪರಿಪಾಲಕನಾದ ಅಲ್ಲಾಹನಿಗೆ,
# ಅವನು ಪರಮ ದಯಾವಂತನೂ ಕಾರುಣ್ಯ ನಿಧಿಯೂ,
# ನ್ಯಾಯ ತೀರ್ಮಾನ ದಿನದ ಅಧಿಪತಿಯೂ ಆಗಿದ್ದಾನೆ.
# ನಾವು ನಿನ್ನನ್ನು ಮಾತ್ರ ಆರಾಧಿಸುತ್ತೇವೆ ಮತ್ತು ನಿನ್ನಿಂದ ಮಾತ್ರ ಸಹಾಯವನ್ನು ಯಾಚಿಸುತ್ತೇವೆ;
# ನೀನು ನಮ್ಮನ್ನು ಸರಿಯಾದ ಮಾರ್ಗದಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆಸು,
# ನಿನ್ನ ಅನುಗ್ರಹಕ್ಕೆ ಪಾತ್ರರಾದವರ, ಕ್ರೋಧಕ್ಕೆ ಈಡಾಗದವರ ಮತ್ತು ದಾರಿತಪ್ಪದವರ ಮಾರ್ಗದಲ್ಲಿ.
{{col-2}}

# Parama dayāvantanū kāruṇyanidhiyū - āda Allāhana nāmadinda (prārambhisuttēne).
# Ella stuti sarva lōkagaḷa paripālakanāda Allāhanige,
# Avanu parama dayāvantanū kāruṇya nidhiyū,
# N'yāya tīrmāna dinada adhipatiyū āgiddāne.
# Nāvu ninnannu mātra ārādhisuttēve mattu ninninda mātra sahāyavannu yācisuttēve;
# Nīnu nam'mannu sariyāda mārgadalli naḍesu,
# Ninna anugrahakke pātrarādavara, krōdhakke īḍāgadavara mattu dāritappadavara mārgadalli.
{{col-end}}

==印歐語系==
===印度－伊朗语族===
====旁遮普語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-3}}
'''古木基文'''
# ਅੱਲਾਹ ਦੇ ਨਾਂ ਨਾਲ ਜਿਹੜਾ ਅਤਿਅੰਤ ਮਿਹਰਬਾਨ ਤੇ ਰਹਿਮ ਫ਼ਰਮਾਉਟ ਵਾਲਾ ਹੈ।
# ਉਸਤਤ ਅੱਲਾਹ ਲਈ ਹੀ ਹੈ ਜਿਹੜਾ ਸਾਰੀ ਸਰਿਸ਼ਟੀ ਦਾ ਰੱਬ ਹੈ, 
# ਅਤਿਅੰਤ ਖਿਦਵਾਨ ਤੇ ਰਹਿਮ ਵਰਮਾਉਣ ਵਾਲਾ ਹੈ, 
# ਬਦਲਾ ਦਿੱਤੇ ਜਾਣ ਵਾਲੇ ਦਿਨ ਦਾ ਮਾਲਕ ਹੈ। 
# ਅਸੀਂ ਤੇਰੀ ਹੀ ਇਬਾਦਤ ਕਰਦੇ ਹਾਂ ਤੇ ਤੈਥੋ ਹੀ ਮਦਦ ਮੰਗਦੇ ਹਾਂ; 
# ਸਾਨੂੰ ਸਿੱਧਾ ਰਾਹ ਵਿਖਾ, 
# ਉਹਨਾਂ ਲੋਕਾਂ ਦਾ ਰਾਹ ਜਿਹਨਾਂ ਨੂੰ ਤੂੰ ਇਨਾਮ ਬਖਸ਼ਿਆ, ਜਿਹੜੇ ਕਰੋਪੀ ਦੇ ਭਾਗੀ ਨਹੀਂ ਬਣੇ ਅਤੇ ਜਿਹੜੇ ਭਟਕੇ ਹੋਏ ਨਹੀਂ ਹਨ।
{{col-3}}
'''羅馬拼音'''
# Alāha dē nāṁ nāla jihaṛā ati'ata miharabāna tē rahima faramā'uṭa vālā hai.
# Usatata Alāha la'ī hī hai jihaṛā sārī sariśaṭī dā raba hai, 
# Ati'ata khidavāna tē rahima varamā'uṇa vālā hai, 
# Badalā ditē jāṇa vālē dina dā mālaka hai. 
# Asīṁ tērī hī ibādata karadē hāṁ tē taithō hī madada magadē hāṁ; 
# Sānū sidhā rāha vikhā, 
# Uhanāṁ lōkāṁ dā rāha jihanāṁ nū tū ināma bakhaśi'ā, jihaṛē karōpī dē bhāgī nahīṁ baṇē atē jihaṛē bhaṭakē hō'ē nahīṁ hana.
{{col-3}}
'''沙木基文'''
#شروع اللّہ دے ناں توں جیڈا رحمن تے رحیم اے  
#حمد اللّہ دی کرنی پھبدی جو رب سب دا
#اوہ رحمان رحیم اے
#لیکھے والے دن دا مالک
#تیری اسی عبادت کریے تینوں بوہڑاں نوں کیے
#توں سانوں سدھے راہ لائی رکھیں
#راہ اونھاں دے تیرا فضل جنھاں دی جولی، ناہ اونھاں دے، توں ناراض جنھاں تے ہویوں، یا جو ایدھر اودھر ہوۓ
{{col end}}

====僧伽罗語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# අපරිමිත දයාන්විත අසමසම කරුණාන්විත අල්ලාහ් ගේ නාමයෙනි.
# සියලු ප්‍රශංසා ලෝකයන් හි පරමාධිපති වූ අල්ලාහ්ට ම ය,
# අපරිමිත දයාන්විත අසමසම කරුණාන්විත ය,
# විනිශ්චය දිනයේ රජු ය.
# ඔබව ම අපි නමදිමු, ඔබගෙන් ම අපි උදව් පතමු;
# අප ට ඍජු මඟ පෙන්වනු මැනව,
# ඔබ කවරෙකු ට ආශිර්වාද කළේ ද එම මාර්ගයයි, තමන් කෙරෙහි කෝපය ට ලක් වූවන් හෝ මුළාවූවන් ගේ මාර්ගය නොව.
{{col-2}}
# Aparimita dayānvita asamasama karuṇānvita Allāh gē nāmayeni.
# Siyalu praśaṁsā lōkayan hi paramādhipati vū Allāhṭa ma ya,
# Aparimita dayānvita asamasama karuṇānvita ya,
# Viniścaya dinayē raju ya.
# Obava ma api namadimu, obagen ma api udav patamu;
# Apa ṭa ṛju man̆ga penvanu mænava,
# Oba kavareku ṭa āśirvāda kaḷē da ema mārgayayi, taman kerehi kōpaya ṭa lak vūvan hō muḷāvūvan gē mārgaya nova.
{{col end}}

====古吉拉特語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# અલ્લાહ ના નામથી જે અત્યંત કૃપાળુ અને દયાળુ છે.
# દરેક પ્રકારની પ્રશંસા અલ્લાહ માટે જ છે, જે સમગ્ર સૃષ્ટિનો પાલનહાર છે,
# ઘણો જ કૃપાળુ, અત્યંત દયાળુ,
# બદલાના દિવસ (કયામત) નો માલિક છે.
# અમે ફકત તારી જ બંદગી કરીએ છીએ અને ફકત તારી જ પાસે મદદ માંગીએ છીએ;
# અમને સત્ય (અને સાચો) માર્ગ બતાવ.
# તે લોકો ના માર્ગ પર જેમના પર તે કૃપા કરી,તે લોકોના (માર્ગ) પર નહી, જેમના પર ક્રોધિત થયો અને ન પથભ્રષ્ટોના.
{{col-2}}
# Allāha nā nāmathī jē atyanta kr̥pāḷu anē dayāḷu chē.
# Darēka prakāranī praśansā Allāha māṭē ja chē, jē samagra sr̥ṣṭinō pālanahāra chē,
# Ghaṇō ja kr̥pāḷu, atyanta dayāḷu,
# Badalānā divasa (kayāmata) nō mālika chē.
# Amē phakata tārī ja bandagī karī'ē chī'ē anē phakata tārī ja pāsē madada māṅgī'ē chī'ē;
# Amanē satya (anē sācō) mārga batāva.
# Tē lōkō nā mārga para jēmanā para tē kr̥pā karī,tē lōkōnā (mārga) para nahī, jēmanā para krōdhita thayō anē na pathabhraṣṭōnā.
{{col end}}

====孟加拉語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

#পরম করুণাময় অতি দয়ালু আল্লাহর নামে:
#সমস্ত প্রশংসা আল্লাব রাব্বুল আলামীনের জন্য |
#পরম করুণাময় অতি দয়ালু |
#প্রতিফল দিবসের মালিক |
#আমরা তোমারই এবাদত করি এবং তোমারই কাছে সাহায্য চাই |
#আমাদের সরল পথ দেখাও |
#তাদের পথ যাদের তুমি নিয়ামত দিয়েছো, তাদের পথ নয় যারা গযবপ্রাপ্ত এবং পথভ্রষ্ট |
{{col-2}}

#Parama karuṇāmaẏa ati daẏālu Āllāhara nāmē
#Samasta praśansā Āllāhba rābbula ālāmīnēra jan'ya 
#Parama karuṇāmaẏa ati daẏālu 
#Pratiphala dibasēra mālika 
#Āmarā tōmāra'i ēbādata kari ēbaṁ tōmāra'i kāchē sāhāyya cā'i 
#Āmādēra sarala patha dēkhā'ō 
#Tādēra patha yādēra tumi niẏāmata diẏēchō, tādēra patha naẏa yārā gayabaprāpta ēbaṁ pathabhraṣṭa 
{{col end}}

====阿萨姆語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# (আৰম্ভ কৰিছো) পৰম কৰুণাময় পৰম দয়ালু আল্লাহৰ নামত
# সকলো ধৰণৰ হামদ (প্ৰশংসা) বিশ্বজগতৰ ৰব আল্লাহৰ বাবে
# যিজন পৰম কৰুণাময়, পৰম দয়ালু
# বিচাৰ দিৱসৰ মালিক
# আমি কেৱল তোমাৰেই ইবাদত কৰোঁ, আৰু তোমাৰ ওচৰতেই সাহায্য প্ৰাৰ্থনা কৰোঁ
# আমাক সৰল পথৰ হিদায়ত দিয়া
# তেওঁলোকৰ পথ, যিসকলক তুমি নিয়ামত (অনুগ্ৰহ) প্ৰদান কৰিছা, যিসকলৰ ওপৰত তোমাৰ ক্ৰোধ অহা নাই আৰু যিসকল পথভ্ৰষ্টও নহয়
{{col-2}}
# (Ārambha karaichō) parama karauṇāmaẏa parama daẏālu Āllāhara nāmata
# Sakalō dharaṇara hāmada (praśansā) biśbajagatara raba Āllāhara bābē
# Yijana parama karauṇāmaẏa, parama daẏālu
# Bicāra dirasara mālika
# Āmi kērala tōmāraē'i ibādata karaōm̐, ārau tōmāra ōcaratē'i sāhāyya praārthanā karaōm̐
# Āmāka sarala pathara hidāẏata diẏā
# Tē'ōm̐lōkara patha, yisakalaka tumi niẏāmata (anugraha) pradāna karaichā, yisakalara ōparata tōmāra kraōdha ahā nā'i ārau yisakala pathabhraṣṭa'ō nahaẏa
{{col end}}

====尼泊尔語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# शुर गर्दछु अल्लाहको नामबाट जो अत्यन्त दयालु र अति कृपालु छ ।
# समस्त प्रशंसा अल्लाहकै लागि छन्, जो सम्पूर्ण ब्रह्माण्डको पालनकर्ता हो ।
# अत्यन्त दयालु अति कृपालु हो ।
# प्रतिफल (कयामत)को दिनका स्वामी हो ।
# हामी तिम्रै उपासना गर्दछौं र तिमीसंग मात्र मद्दत चाहन्छौं ।
# हामीलाई सोझो (सच्चा) बाटो देखाऊ ।
# उनीहरूको बाटो जसलाई तिमीले पुरस्कृत गर्यौ तिनीहरूको होइन जसमाथि तिम्रो क्रोध भयो, र न पथभ्रष्टहरूको (बाटो) ।
{{col-2}}
# Śura gardachu Allāhakō nāmabāṭa jō atyanta dayālu ra ati kr̥pālu cha.
# Samasta praśansā Allāhakai lāgi chan, jō sampūrṇa brahmāṇḍakō pālanakartā hō.
# Atyanta dayālu ati kr̥pālu hō.
# Pratiphala (kayāmata)kō dinakā svāmī hō.
# Hāmī timrai upāsanā gardachauṁ ra timīsaṅga mātra maddata cāhanchauṁ.
# Hāmīlā'ī sōjhō (saccā) bāṭō dēkhā'ū.
# Unīharūkō bāṭō jasalā'ī timīlē puraskr̥ta garyau tinīharūkō hō'ina jasamāthi timrō krōdha bhayō, ra na pathabhraṣṭaharūkō (bāṭō).
{{col end}}

====多格拉語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# अ'ऊं अल्लाह दा नांऽ लेइयै (पढ़ना) जो बे-हद कर्म करने आहला (ते) बार-बार रैम करने आहला ऐ॥
# हर (किसम दी) तरीफ दा अल्लाह (ग) अधिकारी ऐ (जो) सारे ज्हान्ने दा रब्ब (ऐ)॥
# बे-हद कर्म करने आहला, बार-बार रैम करने आहला॥
# (ते) जज़ा (अच्छा बदला देने) - स'जा (दंड देने) दे समे दा मालक ऐ॥
# (हे अल्लाह!) अस तेरी गै अबादत करने आं ते तेरे शा गै मदद मंगने आं॥
# असेंगी सिद्धे रस्ते पर चलाऽ॥
# उनें लोकें दे रस्ते पर जिंदे पर तोह इनाम कीते दा (यानी जिनेंगी पुरस्कार प्रदान कीते दा) ऐ, जिंदे पर नां ते (बा'द च तेरा) ग़ज़ब (प्रकोप) नाज़ल होआ (ऐ) ते नां ओह (बा'द च) गुमराह (होए दे) न॥
{{col-2}}
# A'ūṁ Allāha dā nāṁ' lēiyai (paḍha़nā) jō bē-hada karma karanē āhalā (tē) bāra-bāra raima karanē āhalā ai.
# Hara (kisama dī) tarīpha dā Allāha (ga) adhikārī ai (jō) sārē jhānnē dā rabba (ai),
# Bē-hada karma karanē āhalā, bāra-bāra raima karanē āhalā,
# (Tē) jaja़ā (acchā badalā dēnē) - sa'jā (daṁḍa dēnē) dē samē dā mālaka ai.
# (Hē Allāha!) asa tērī gai abādata karanē āṁ tē tērē śā gai madada maṁganē āṁ;
# Asēṁgī siddhē rastē para calā',
# Unēṁ lōkēṁ dē rastē para jiṁdē para tōha ināma kītē dā (yānī jinēṁgī puraskāra pradāna kītē dā) ai, jiṁdē para nāṁ tē (bā'da ca tērā) ga़ja़ba (prakōpa) nāja़la hōā (ai) tē nāṁ ōha (bā'da ca) gumarāha (hōē dē) na.
{{col end}}


====马拉地語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# अल्लाहच्या नावाने आरंभ करतो, जो मोठा कृपावान आणि अतिशय दया करणारा आहे.
# सर्व स्तुति - प्रशंसा अल्लाहकरिता आहे, जो समस्त विश्वाचा पालनहार १ आहे.
# मोठा कृपावान, अतिशय दया करणारा आहे,
# मोबदल्याच्या दिवसा (कयामत) चा स्वामी आहे.
# आम्ही तुझीच उपासना करतो आणि तुझ्याकडेच मदतीची याचना करतो;
# आम्हाला सरळ (सत्य) मार्ग दाखव,
# अशा लोकांचा मार्ग, ज्यांच्यावर तू कृपा केली, त्या लोकांचा नव्हे, ज्यांच्यावर तुझा प्रकोप झाला आणि ना मार्गभ्रष्ट झालेल्यांचा.
{{col-2}}
# Allāhacyā nāvānē ārambha karatō, jō mōṭhā kr̥pāvāna āṇi atiśaya dayā karaṇārā āhē.
# Sarva stuti - praśansā Allāhakaritā āhē, jō samasta viśvācā pālanahāra 1 āhē.
# Mōṭhā kr̥pāvāna, atiśaya dayā karaṇārā āhē,
# mōbadalyācyā divasā (kayāmata) cā svāmī āhē.
# Āmhī tujhīca upāsanā karatō āṇi tujhyākaḍēca madatīcī yācanā karatō;
# āmhālā saraḷa (satya) mārga dākhava,
# aśā lōkān̄cā mārga, jyān̄cyāvara tū kr̥pā kēlī, tyā lōkān̄cā navhē, jyān̄cyāvara tujhā prakōpa jhālā āṇi nā mārgabhraṣṭa jhālēlyān̄cā.
{{col end}}

====印地語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

मैं अल्लाह की पनाह माँगता हूँ शैतान मरदूद से:<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://quranhindi.com/ |title=Quran Hindi<!-- Bot generated title --> |access-date=2008-06-16 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080516210550/http://www.quranhindi.com/ |archive-date=2008-05-16 |dead-url=yes }}</ref>
# अल्लाह के नाम से, जो अत्यन्त कृपाशील और बडा़ दयावान है|
# प्रशंसा अल्लाह के लिये ही है, जो सारे संसार का पालनकर्ता है|
# बड़ा कृपाशील और अत्यंत दयावान है|
# बदला दिये जाने के दिन का मालिक है|
# हम तेरी ही बन्दगी करते हैं, और तुझ से ही मदद माँगते हैं|
# हमें सीधे मार्ग पर चला|
# उन लोगों के मार्ग पर, जो तेरे कृपापात्र हुए, जो ना प्रकोप के भागी हुए, ना ही पथ-भ्रष्ट ही हुए|
{{col-2}}

Main Allah kee panaah maangata hoon shaitaan maradood se;
# Allah ke naam se, jo atyant krpaasheel aur bada dayaavaan hai.
# Prashansa Allah ke liye hee hai, jo saare sansaar ka paalanakarta hai,
# Bada krpaasheel aur atyant dayaavaan hai,
# Badala diye jaane ke din ka maalik hai.
# Ham teree hee bandagee karate hain, aur tujh se hee madad maangate hain;
# Hamen seedhe maarg par chala,
# Un logon ke maarg par, jo tere krpaapaatr hue, jo na prakop ke bhaagee hue, na hee path-bhrasht hee hue.
{{col end}}

====乌尔都語====
#الله کے نام سے جو بڑا مہربان نہایت رحم والا ہے (۱)
#سب طرح کی تعریف خدا ہی کو (سزاوار) ہے جو تمام مخلوقات کا پروردگار ہے (۲)
#بڑا مہربان نہایت رحم والا (۳)
#انصاف کے دن کا حاکم (۴)
#اے پروردگار) ہم تیری ہی عبادت کرتے ہیں اور تجھ ہی سے مدد مانگتے ہیں (۵)
#ہم کو سیدھے رستے چلا (۶)
#ان لوگوں کے رستے جن پر تو اپنا فضل وکرم کرتا رہا نہ ان کے جن پر غصے ہوتا رہا اور نہ گمراہوں کے (۷)

====信德語====
# الله ٻاجھاري مھربان جي نالي سان ( شروع)
# سڀ ساراھ (خاص) جھانن جي پالڻھار الله کي جڳائي.
# (جو) ٻاجھارو مھربان.
# قيامت جي ڏينھن جو مالڪ (آھي).
# تنھنجي ئي عبادت ڪيون ٿا ۽ تو کان ئي مدد گھرون ٿا.
# اسان کي سڌي واٽ ڏيکار.
# جا انھن جي واٽ آھي جن تي فضل ڪيو اٿئي نه انھن جي (واٽ) جن تي ( تنھنجو) ڏمر ٿيل آھي ۽ نه گمراھن جي (واٽ).

====波斯語====
#به نام خداوند بخشنده مهربان
#ستایش پروردگار جهانیان
#بخشنده ترین و مهربان ترین
#صاحب روز واپسین
#تو تنها کسی هستی که میپرستیم و از او کمک می خواهیم
#ما را به راه راست راهنمائی کن
#راه كسانى كه ايشان را نعمت داده‌اى، نه خشم گرفتگان بر آنها و نه گمراهان

====普什图語====
# د الله په نامه سره (شروع كوم) چې ډېر زیات مهربان، بې حده رحم كوونكى دى
# ټول (د كمال) صفتونه خاص د الله لپاره دي چې د ټولو عالَمونو ښه پالونكى دى
# ډېر زیات مهربان، بې حده رحم كوونكى دى
# د بَدلې د ورځې مالك دى
# مونږ خاص ستا عبادت كوو او خاص له تا نه مدد غواړو
# ته مونږ ته سَمَه (نېغه) لاره وښَیَه
# د هغو خلقو لاره چې تا پر هغوى باندې انعام كړى دى؛ چې نه پر هغوى باندې غضب شوى او نه ګمراهان دي

====库尔德語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
'''索拉尼方言'''
# به ناوی خوای به‌خشنده‌ی میهره‌بان (به ناوی ئه‌و خوایه‌ی كانگای ڕه‌حمه‌ت و سۆزو به‌زه‌ییه‌)
# سوپاس و ستایش هه‌ر شایسته‌ی خوایه و بۆ خوایه‌، که خاوه‌ن و په‌روه‌ردگاری هه‌موو جیهانیان و هه‌موو بوونه‌وه‌ره
# به‌خشنده‌ی میهره‌بان‌، کانگای ڕه‌حمه‌ت و میهره‌بانیه (ڕه‌حمه‌تی له دنیادا هه‌موو شتێکی گرتۆته‌وه‌، به‌ڵام له قیامه‌تدا ته‌نها بۆ ئیماندارانه‌)
# خاوه‌ن و سه‌رداری ڕۆژی پاداشت و سزایه (پادشای ڕۆژی قیامه‌ته که دادپه‌روه‌ری ڕه‌هاو بێ سنووری تێدا به‌رپا ده‌کات)
# خوایه‌، ته‌نها هه‌ر تۆ ده‌په‌رستین و هه‌ر له‌تۆش داوای یارمه‌تی و پشتیوانی ده‌که‌ین (له کاروباری دین و دنیاماندا، به‌که‌سی تر له به‌ده‌کانت ناکرێت)
# خوایه به‌رده‌وام ڕێنمووییمان بفه‌رموو بۆ ئه‌م ڕێبازی ڕاست و دروستی ئیسلامه
# که به‌رنامه و ڕێبازی ئه‌وانه‌یه له نازو نیعمه‌تی خۆت به‌هره‌وه‌رت کردوون، نه‌مانخه‌یته سه‌ر ڕێبازی ئه‌وانه‌ی خه‌شم و قینیان لێگیراوه (به‌هۆی ئه‌وه‌وه ده‌یزانن و لایانداوه‌)، هه‌روه‌ها نه‌مانخاته سه‌ر ڕێبازی ئه‌وانه‌ش، که سه‌رگه‌ردان و گومڕان (به‌هۆی لاساری و یاخی بوون و نه‌زانینیانه‌وه‌)
{{col-2}}

'''库尔曼吉方言'''
# Bi navê Xwedayê Dilovan ê Dilovîn.
# Spasî ji bo Xwedayê dinyayê û gerdûnê.
# Ew dilovan ê dilovîn e.
# (Ew) Serokê roja dîn û hisabê ye.
# Em ji te re bi tenê îbadetê dikin û em alîkariyê ji te bi tenê dixwazin.
# Tu me bîne li ser rêya rast.
# Li ser rêya ewên ku te bi wan qencî kiriye. Ne li ser rêya wan kesên ku te li ser wan xezeb daxistiye û ne li ser rêya wan kesên ku tu ji wan xeyidî bû yî û yên ku rêya xwe şaş kirine.
{{col end}}

====迪维西語====
# رحمن ވަންތަ رحيم ވަންތަ اللَّه ގެ اسم ފުޅުން ފަށައިގަންނަމެވެ.
# حمد ހުރީ، عالم ތަކުގެ ވެރި اللَّه އަށެވެ.
# (އެކަލާނގެއީ) رحمن ވަންތަ رحيم ވަންތަ ރަސްކަލާނގެއެވެ.
# قيامة ދުވަހުގެ ވެރި ރަސްކަލާނގެއެވެ.
# އަޅަމެން އަޅުކަންކުރަނީ، އިބަރަސްކަލާނގެއަށެވެ. އަދި އަޅަމެން ވާގިއެދެނީ، އިބަރަސްކަލާނގެ حضرة ންނެވެ.
# އަޅަމެންނަށް، ސީދާވެގެންވާ ތެދުމަގަށް މަގު ދައްކަވާނދޭވެ!
# (އެއީ) އެއުރެންނަށް އިބަރަސްކަލާނގެ نعمة ދެއްވި މީހުންގެ މަގެވެ. އެއުރެންގެ މައްޗަށް ކޯފާލައްވާފައިވާ މީހުންގެ މަގެއްނޫނެވެ. އަދި މަގުފުރެދިފައިވާ މީހުންގެ މަގެއްވެސް ނުމެނޫންމެއެވެ.

====扎扎其語====
# Ebe namey Heqê rehmani u rahimi ra.
# Hemd Rabê aleman Ellay rêyo.
# O rehmano, rahimo.
# O wayirê, sultanê roca dinio.
# Teyna to rê mınete kenime u teyna to ra yardım wazenime.
# Ma era raya raşte fiye.
# Êyê ke to namet do cı, êyê ke ğezeb nêeştiyo ser, êyê ke nêkewtê tari u şaşbiyayış, raya dinan ra.

====塔吉語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

# Ба номи Худованди бахшояндаи меҳрубон
# Ситоиш Худоро, ки Парвардигори ҷаҳониён аст
# Бахшояндаи меҳрубон
# Фармонравои рӯзи ҷазо
# Танҳо Туро мепарастем ва танҳо аз Ту ёрӣ меҷӯем
# Моро ба роҳи рост ҳидоят кун
# роҳи касоне, ки онҳоро неъмат додаӣ, на хашмгирифтагони бар онҳо ва на гумроҳон
{{col-2}}

# Ba nomi Xudovandi ʙaxşojandaji mehruʙon
# Sitojiş Xudoro, ki Parvardigori çahonijon ast
# Baxşojandaji mehruʙon
# Farmonravoji rūzi çazo
# Tanho Turo meparastem va tanho az Tu jorī meçūjem
# Moro ʙa rohi rost hidojat kun
# rohi kasone, ki onhoro ne'mat dodajī, na xaşmgiriftagoni ʙar onho va na gumrohon
{{col end}}

====罗姆語====
# E Allaheskere anaveste sodela po kovlipe sarinenge so dela po kovlipe e inandžienge.
# O Šukuri ulo samo e Allaheske jaratčija sa e sumnalengoro,
# So dela po kovlipe sarinenge so dela po kovlipe e inandžienge,
# Tagar e kijametsko diveske.
# Samo tuke itati keraja taj tutar jardimi rodaja;
# Bičal amen ko čačutno drumo,
# Ko drumo okolenge kaske so dingjan to kovlipe, a na ko drumo okolenge karši pumende so kzdirdingje i holi, niti palo okola so našavdile.

===阿尔巴尼亚語===
# Me emrin e All-llahut, Mëshiruesit, Mëshirëbërësit!
# Falënderimi i takon All-llahut, Zotit të botërave!
# Mëshiruesit, Mëshirëbërësit!
# Sunduesit të ditës së Gjykimit!
# Ty të adhurojmë dhe prej Teje ndihmë kërkojmë!
# Udhëzona në rrugën e drejtë!
# Në rrugën e atyre ndaj të cilëve ke bekimin, e jo në të atyre që je i hidhëruar, dhe që kanë humbur!

===亚美尼亚語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Բարեգութ և մեծահոգի Աստվածի անունով
# Փառք Աստվածին՝ աշխարհների տիրակալին
# Բարեգութ և մեծահոգի (Աստվածին)
# Ահեղ դատաստանի արքային
# Քեզ ենք մենք երկրպագում և քեզ ենք դիմում (օգնության խնդրանքով)
# Ցու՛յց տուր մեզ ճշմարիտ ուղին
# Ցու՛յց տուր այն (ուղին) նրանց, ում դու շնորհել ես (բարեկեցություն), ում վրա չես զայրացել, այլ ոչ թե մոլորյալներին:
{{col-2}}
# Baregut’ yev metsahogi Astvatsi anunov.
# P’arrk’ Astvatsin՝ ashkharhneri tirakalin,
# Baregut’ yev metsahogi (Astvatsin),
# Ahegh datastani ark’ayin.
# K’ez yenk’ menk’ yerkrpagum yev k’ez yenk’ dimum (ognut’yan khndrank’ov);
# Ts’u՛yts’ tur mez chshmarit ughin,
# Ts’u՛yts’ tur ayn (ughin) nrants’, um du shnorhel yes (barekets’ut’yun), um vra ch’es zayrats’el, ayl voch’ t’e moloryalnerin.
{{col end}}

===希臘語族===
====希腊語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

#Στο όνομα του Θεού, του πιό ευεργετικού, του πιό φιλεύσπλαχνου: 
#Ο έπαινος είναι στο Θεό, Λόρδος όλων αυτός υπάρχει. 
#Ο πιό ευεργετικός, ο πιό φιλεύσπλαχνος. 
#Κύριος της ημέρας της κρίσης. 
#Εσένα μόνο λατρεύουμε, και από Εσένα μόνο ζητάμε τη βοήθεια. 
#Καθοδήγησέ μας στην ευθεία πορεία. 
#Την πορεία εκείνων στους οποίους έχεις παραχωρήσει την εύνοια, όχι εκείνων που έχουν κερδίσει το θυμό Σου, ούτε εκείνων που έχασαν το δρόμο τους.
{{col-2}}

#Sto ónoma tou Theoú, tou pió evergetikoú, tou pió filéfsplachnou: 
#O épainos eínai sto Theó, Lórdos ólon aftós ypárchei. 
#O pió evergetikós, o pió filéfsplachnos. 
#Kýrios tis iméras tis krísis. 
#Eséna móno latrévoume, kai apó Eséna móno zitáme ti voítheia. 
#Kathodígisé mas stin eftheía poreía. 
#Tin poreía ekeínon stous opoíous écheis parachorísei tin évnoia, óchi ekeínon pou échoun kerdísei to thymó Sou, oúte ekeínon pou échasan to drómo tous.
{{col end}}

===凯尔特語族===
====威尔士語====
#Yn enw'r Duw Trugarhaol, Rhoddwr pob daioni.
#Moliant i Dduw, Arglwydd y Bydysawd,
#Rhoddwr pob daioni, y Trugarhaol,
#Brenin Dydd y Farn Olaf.
#Fe'th addolwn; atoch Chi yn unig trown am gymorth.
#Arwain ni hyd Llwybr Cyfiawnder,
#Llwybr y rhai sydd wedi derbyn Dy ddaioni, y rhai nad ennynant Dy ddicter, y rhai nad ydynt ar gyfeiliorn.

====愛爾蘭語====
#In ainm Dé atá lán trua agus trócaire!
#Moladh go hard le Dia, Tiarna na nUile Dhomhan,
#Dia atá lán trua agus trócaire,
#Rialtóir Lá an Luain.
#Tusa a adhraímid, Ortsa a iarraimid cabhair,
#Cuir i mbealach ár leasa sinn,
#A mbealach siúd ar bhronn Tú Do ghrásta orthu,
#Seachas a mbealach siúd a bhfuil fearg ort leo agus a chuaigh ar strae.

===日耳曼語族===
====冰島語====
#Í nafni Guðs, hins náðuga, hins miskunnsama.
#Lofaður sé Guð, drottinn allra heima
#hinn náðugi, hinn miskunnsami,
#Konungur dómsdags;
#Við dýrkum þig og biðjum þig hjálpar.
#Leið oss hina réttu leið,
#Leið þeirra sem þú hefur blessað og ekki þeirra sem villast af leið.

====瑞典語====
# I Guds, den Nåderikes, den Barmhärtiges namn.
# All lovprisning tillkommer endast Gud, världarnas Herre,
# Den Nåderikes, den Barmhärtiges,
# Domedagens Härskare.
# Dig allena tillbedjer vi och Dig allena bönfaller vi om hjälp;
# Led oss på den rätta vägen,
# Deras väg, vilka Du bevisat nåd, vilka icke har ådragit sig (Din) vrede, och som icke har gått vilse.

====挪威語====
#I Guds navn, Den mest barmhjertige og nådige.
#Priset være Gud, universets Hersker,
#Den mest barmhjertige og nådige.
#Herren over dommens dag.
#Deg alene skal vi følge, Deg alene skal vi spørre om hjelp.
#Vis oss den veien vi skal følge.
#Den veien som vandres av de Du har velsignet, ikke den der de vantro vandrer, og de som går seg vill.

====丹麦語====
#I Guds navn, den Nådige, den Barmhjertige.
#Al lovprisning tilkommer Gud, alverdens Herre
#den Nådige, den Barmhjertige,
#Dommedagens Hersker.
#Dig [alene] tilbeder vi, og Dig [alene] anråber vi om hjælp.
#Led os ad den lige vej —
#vejen, der følges af dem, Du har velsignet, ikke [vejen, der følges af] dem, der har vakt Din vrede, ej heller de vildfarne.

====德語====
#Im Namen Gottes, des Gnädigen, des Barmherzigen.
#Aller Preis gebührt Gott, dem Herrn der Welten,
#Dem Gnädigen, dem Barmherzigen,
#Dem Meister des Gerichtstages.
#Dir allein dienen wir, und zu Dir allein flehen wir um Hilfe;
#Führe uns auf den geraden Weg,
#Den Weg derer, denen Du Gnade erwiesen hast, die nicht (Dein) Missfallen erregt haben und die nicht irregegangen sind.

====阿勒曼尼語====
# Im Name vom Gott, em Erbarmer, em Barmherzige.
# S Loob em Gott, em Herr vode Welte,
# Em Erbarmer, em Barmherzige,
# Em Herrscher vom Jüngste Gricht.
# A Der tüemer diene und Di bitet mer um Hilf;
# Füer üs uf de graadi Weg,
# De Weg vo dene, wo Du Gnaad erwise hesch, und nöd die, wo Zorn erregt hend und feelgange sind.

====意第緒語====
# אין נאָמען פֿון אַללאַ, דעם גנעדיקן, דעם באַרעמהאַרציקן
# אַלע שבֿחים געהערן אַללאַן, דעס האַר און געביטער פֿון אַלע וועלטן
# דעם גנעדיקן, דעם באַרעמהארציקן
# דעם הערשער פֿון טאָג-פֿון-משפט
# נאָר דיר אַליין דינען מיר, און נאָר דיר אַליין בעטן מיר רחמים די זאָלסט אונדז העלפֿן
# פֿיר אונדז אויף דעם ריכטיקן וועג
# דעס שטעג פֿון די וועלכע דו האָסט באַשענקט מיט דיין ברכה, פֿון די וועלכע האבן ניט געבראַכט אויף זיך דיין אומצופֿרידנקייט און פֿון די וואָס האָבן זיך ניט פֿאַרבלאָנדזשעט

====荷蘭語====
# In de naam van God, de Erbarmer, de Barmhartige.
# Lof zij God, de Heer van de wereldbewoners,
# De Erbarmer, de Barmhartige,
# De Heerser op de oordeelsdag.
# U dienen wij en U vragen wij om hulp.
# Leid ons op de juiste weg,
# De weg van hen aan wie U genade geschonken hebt, op wie geen toorn rust en die niet dwalen.

====南非語====
# In die naam van God, die Barmhartige, die Genadige.
# Alle lof behoort aan God, Heer van die Werelde,
# Barmhartige, die Genadige,
# Meester van die Oordeelsdag.
# U alleen aanbid ons en tot U alleen rig ons ons smekinge om hulp,
# Lei ons op die regte weg-
# Die weg van hulle wat deur U geseen is, hulle wat U woede vermy het en hulle wat nie afgedwaal het nie.

====英語====
#In the name of God, the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful.
#Praise be to God, the Lord of the worlds,
#The Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful,
#Master of the Day of Judgment.
#You alone do we worship, and You alone do we ask for help;
#Guide us on the straight path,
#The path of those whom You have bestowed your favor, not of those who have earned Your anger, nor of those who go astray.

===意大利語族===
====拉丁語====
#In nomine Deus Misericordis Miseratoris.
#Laus Deus Domino orbis universi.
#Misericordi Miseratori
#Regi diei iudicii.
#Tibi servimus, in Te adiutorem speramus.
#Duc nos via recta,
#Via Tibi placentium, nec tamen illorum quibus irasceris, nec via errantium.

====法語====
# Au nom de Dieu, le Tout Miséricordieux, le Très Miséricordieux .
# Louange à Dieu, Seigneur de l'univers.
# Le Tout Miséricordieux, le Très Miséricordieux,
# Maître du Jour de la rétribution.
# C'est Toi Seul que nous adorons, et c'est Toi Seul dont nous implorons secours.
# Guide-nous dans le droit chemin,
# le chemin de ceux que Tu as comblés de faveurs, non pas de ceux qui ont encouru Ta colère, ni des égarés.

====意大利語====
# In nome di Dio, il Compassionevole, il Misericordioso.
# La lode (appartiene) ad Dio, Signore dei mondi,
# il Compassionevole, il Misericordioso,
# Re del Giorno del Giudizio.
# Te noi adoriamo e a Te chiediamo aiuto.
# Guidaci sulla retta via,
# la via di coloro che hai colmato di grazia, non di coloro che (sono incorsi) nella (Tua) ira, né degli sviati.

====葡萄牙語====
#Em nome de Deus, o Clemente, o Misericordioso. 
#Louvado seja Deus, Senhor do Universo,
#Clemente, o Misericordioso,
#Soberano do Dia do Juízo.
#Só a Ti adoramos e só de Ti imploramos ajuda!
#Guia-nos à senda reta;
#À senda dos que agraciaste, não à dos abominados, nem à dos extraviados.

====西班牙語====
#En el nombre de Dios, Clemente, Misericordioso.
#Alabado sea Dios, Señor del Universo,
#Clemente, Misericordioso, 
#Soberano en el Día del Juicio. 
#Sólo a ti adoramos y sólo a ti imploramos ayuda;
#Guíanos por el sendero recto.
#El sendero de los que has agraciado, no el de los que han incurrido en tu ira, ni el de los extraviados.

====加泰罗尼亚語====
# En el nom de Déu, el Clement, el Misericordiós.
# Tota lloança pertoca només a Déu, Senyor dels mons,
# El Clement, el Misericordiós,
# L'Amo del Dia del Judici.
# Tan sols a Tu adorem i tan sols a Tu demanem ajut;
# Encamina'ns pel camí recte,
# El camí d'aquells als qui Tu has concedit les Teves benedicciones, el d'aquells que no han merescut la teva ira i dels qui no s'han extraviat.

====羅馬尼亞語====
# În numele lui Dumnezeu, Milostivul, Îndurătorul
# Slavă lui Dumnezeu, Domnul lumilor,
# Celui Milostiv, Îndurător,
# Ce domnește în Ziua Judecății.
# Ție voim să-Ţi servim și la Tine să ne rugăm.
# Condu-ne pe drumul cel drept,
# Pe drumul acelora de care Te-ai îndurat, nu al celor asupra cărora ești înfuriat și nu al celor ce rătăcesc.

===波羅的－斯拉夫語族===
====立陶宛語====
# Vardan Dievo, Gailestingojo, Maloningojo.
# Garbė Dievui, pasaulių Valdovui,
# Maloningajam, Gailestingajam,
# Teismo Dienos Valdovui,
# Išties, tik Tave mes garbiname ir tik Tavęs mes prašome pagalbos,
# Išvesk mus į tiesų kelią
# Į kelią tų, kuriuos apdovanojai gėrybėmis bet ne tų, kurie užsitraukė ant savęs Tavo nepasitenkinimą ir ne tų, kurie paklydo.

====拉脫維亞語====
# Visžēlīgākā, Žēlojošā Dieva vārdā!
# Visus slavinājumus pelnījis Dievas, pasauļu Kungs,
# Visžēlīgākais, Žēlojošais,
# Atmaksas dienas Valdnieks!
# Tikai Tev mēs kalpojam, un tikai Tev mēs lūdzam palīdzību!
# Ved mūs pa Taisno ceļu –
# Pa to [kalpu] ceļu, kurus Tu esi apdāvinājis ar labumiem, ne [pa to ceļu], pār kuriem ir [Tavas] dusmas, un ne [pa] nomaldījušos [ceļu]! 

====捷克語====
#Ve jménu Boha milosrdného, slitovného.
#Chvála Bohu, Pánu lidstva veškerého,
#Milosrdnému, Slitovnému,
#Vládci dne soudného!
#Tebe uctíváme a Tebe o pomoc žádáme,
#Veď nás stezkou přímou,
#Stezkou těch, jež zahrnuls milostí Svou, ne těch, na něž jsi rozhněván, ani těch, kdo v bludu jsou.

====斯洛伐克語====
# V mene Boha milostivého, v moci ktorého je milosť.
# Vďaka Bohu, Pánovi tvorstva (za všetko),
# Milostivému, v moci ktorého je milosť,
# V moci ktorého je Deň zúčtovania.
# Teba (Bože) uctievame a Teba o pomoc prosíme (na Teba sa vo všetkom, čo konáme, spoliehame a o pomoc žiadame);
# Správne nás usmerni na  (tú) cestu rovnú (správnu, ktorá je bez vybočení z pravdy),
# Na cestu tých, ktorým si dary Svoje podaroval, nie (na cestu) tých, na ktorých je hnev (tvoj) zoslaný, ani (na cestu) tých, ktorí zblúdili.

====波蘭語====
#W imię Boga Miłosiernego, Litościwego!
#Chwała Bogu, Panu światów,
#Miłosiernemu, Litościwemu,
#Królowi Dnia Sądu .
#Oto Ciebie czcimy i Ciebie prosimy o pomoc.
#Prowadź nas drogą prostą,
#Drogą tych, których obdarzyłeś dobrodziejstwami, nie zaś tych, na których jesteś zagniewany, i nie tych, którzy błądzą.

====上索布語====
# W mjenje Allah, Miłosćiweho a Smilneho.
# Chwała Allah, knjezej wšeho swěta,
# Miłosćiwemu, Smilnemu,
# Kralej sudneho dnja.
# Tebi słužimy, a tebje prosymy wo pomoc;
# Wjedź nas po runym puću,
# Po puću tych, kotrymž sy miłosć wopokazał, a kiž njepodleža hněwej a njekroča po wopačnych pućach.

====波斯尼亞語====
# U ime Boga, Milostivog, Milosrdnog!
# Hvala Bogu, Gospodaru svjetova,
# Milostivom, Milosrdnom,
# Vladaru Dana sudnjeg!
# Tebe obožavamo i od Tebe pomoć tražimo.
# Uputi nas na put pravi
# Put onih kojima si blagodat darovao, ne onih na kojima je srdžba, niti zalutalih.

====克羅地亞語====
# U ime Boga onog koji čini milosrđe, Milosrdnog.
# Slava Bogu, Gospodaru svijeta,
# Onom koji čini milosrđe, Milosrdnom,
# Kralju Dana Suđenja.
# Ti si onaj koga mi obožavamo, ti si onaj kome se molimo za pomoć;
# Usmjeri nas na pravi put,
# Put onih koje si ti obasuo dobročinstvima; a ne na put onih koji se izlažu tvojem gnjevu ni onih zabludjelih.

====塞爾維亞－克羅地亞語====
# U ime Boga, Milostivog, Samilosnog.
# Tebe, Bože, Gospodara svjetova, hvalimo,
# Milostivog, Samilosnog,
# Vladara Dana sudnjeg.
# Tebi se klanjamo i od Tebe pomoć tražimo!
# Uputi nas na pravi put,
# Na Put onih kojima si milost Svoju darovao, a ne onih koji su protiv sebe srdžbu izazvali, niti onih koji su zalutali!

====塞爾維亞語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# У име Бога благога и милосрднога.
# Слава Богу, господару свега свијета,
# Благому, милосрдному,
# Владару судњег дана.
# Тебе ми обожавамо, од тебе ми помоћи просимо.
# Упути нас на праву стазу.
# На стазу онијех којие си ти обасуо доброчинством, не онијех, који су на себе навукли гњев твој, нити онијех који блуде.
{{col-2}}
# U ime Boga blagoga i milosrdnoga.
# Slava Bogu, gospodaru svega svijeta,
# Blagomu, milosrdnomu,
# Vladaru sudnjeg dana.
# Tebe mi obožavamo, od tebe mi pomoći prosimo.
# Uputi nas na pravu stazu.
# Na stazu onijeh kojie si ti obasuo dobročinstvom, ne onijeh, koji su na sebe navukli gnjev tvoj, niti onijeh koji blude.
{{col end}}

====保加利亞語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

#В името на Милостивия и Състрадателния Бог!
#Хвала на Бога, Господарят на Вселената,
#Най-милостивия и най-състрадателния,
#Господар на съдния ден.
#Ти си този, на когото се молим и теб молим за помощ.
#Води ни по праведния път,
#Пътят на тези, които благославяш, а не на тези, които заслужават гнева ти, нито на тези, които се отклоняват.
{{col-2}}

#V imeto na Milostiviya i Sŭstradatelniya Bog!
#Khvala na Boga, Gospodaryat na Vselenata,
#Naĭ-milostiviya i naĭ-sŭstradatelniya,
#Gospodar na sŭdniya den.
#Ti si tozi, na kogoto se molim i teb molim za pomosht.
#Vodi ni po pravedniya pŭt,
#Pŭtyat na tezi, koito blagoslavyash, a ne na tezi, koito zasluzhavat gneva ti, nito na tezi, koito se otklonyavat.
{{col end}}

====馬其頓語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

# Во името на Алах, Милостивиот, Сомилосен! 
# Благодарноста Му припаѓа на Алах, Господарот на Световите,
# Милостивиот, Сомилосен,
# Владетелот на Судниот Ден!
# Ние само Тебе Те обожуваме и само од Тебе помош бараме!
# Упати нè на патот вистински,
# на патот на оние врз кои ја разлеа Твојата благодет, а не на патот на оние кои гневот Твој го предизвикаа и не на патот на оние кои во заблуда скршнаа!
{{col-2}}

# Vo imeto na Alah, Milostiviot, Somilosen! 
# Blagodarnosta Mu pripaǵa na Alah, Gospodarot na Svetovite,
# Milostiviot, Somilosen,
# Vladetelot na Sudniot Den!
# Nie samo Tebe Te obožuvame i samo od Tebe pomoš barame!
# Upati nè na patot vistinski,
# na patot na onie vrz koi ja razlea Tvojata blagodet, a ne na patot na onie koi gnevot Tvoj go predizvikaa i ne na patot na onie koi vo zabluda skršnaa!
{{col end}}

====烏克蘭語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

#В ім'я всемилостивого, всемилосердного Бога.
#Слава Богу, Господу всього сущого.
#Всемилостивому, всемилосердному.
#Володареві Судного дня.
#Тобі поклоняємося і в Тебе благаємо допомоги.
#Веди нас праведним шляхом:
#Шляхом тих, кого Ти облагодіяв, а не тих, що прогнівили Тебе, і не тих, що заблукали.
{{col-2}}

#V im'ya vsemylostyvoho, vsemyloserdnoho Boha.
#Slava Bohu, Hospodu vsʹoho sushchoho.
#Vsemylostyvomu, vsemyloserdnomu.
#Volodarevi Sudnoho dnya.
#Tobi poklonyayemosya i v Tebe blahayemo dopomohy.
#Vedy nas pravednym shlyakhom:
#Shlyakhom tykh, koho Ty oblahodiyav, a ne tykh, shcho prohnivyly Tebe, i ne tykh, shcho zablukaly.
{{col end}}

====白俄羅斯語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# У iмя Бога, Miласцівага, Mіласэрнага. 
# Уся хвала належыць Богу, Гаспадару сусвету,
# Miласціваму, Mілaсэрнаму,
# Валадару Суднага Дня.
# Табе аднаму мы пакланяемся і Цябе аднаго мы молім аб дапамoзе;
# Накіруй нас на шлях праўдзівы,
# Шлях тых, кагo ты адарыў Сваiм дабром, тых, хто не наклікаў на сябе Тваёй няміласці, і тых, хто не заблудзіўся.
{{col-2}}
# U imia Alacha, Milascivaha, Milasernaha. 
# Usia chvala naliežyć Alachu, Haspadaru susvietu,
# Milascivamu, Milasernamu,
# Valadaru Sudnaha Dnia.
# Tabie adnamu my paklaniajemsia i Ciabie adnaho my molim ab dapamozie;
# Nakiruj nas na šliach praŭdzivy,
# Šliach tych, kaho ty adaryŭ Svaim dabrom, tych, chto nie naklikaŭ na siabie Tvajoj niamilasci, i tych, chto nie zabludziŭsia.
{{col end}}

====俄語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Во имя Бога Милостивого, Милосердного. 
# Хвала Богу, Господу миров,
# Милостивому, Милосердному,
# Держащему в своём распоряжении день суда.
# Тебе поклоняемся и у Тебя просим помощи;
# Веди нас путём прямым,
# Путём тех, которых Ты облагодетельствовал, не тех, которые под гневом, ни тех которые блуждают.
{{col-2}}
# Vo imya Boga Milostivogo, Miloserdnogo. 
# Hvala Bogu, Gospodu mirov,
# Milostivomu, Miloserdnomu,
# Derzhashchemu v svoyom rasporyazhenii den' suda.
# Tebe poklonyayemsya i u Tebya prosim pomoshchi;
# Vedi nas putom pryamym,
# Putom tekh, kotorykh Ty oblagodetel'stvoval, ne tekh, kotoryye pod gnevom, ni tekh kotoryye bluzhdayut.
{{col end}}

==東北高加索語系==
===車臣語===
{{col-begin}}
{{col-2}}
#Ша сов къинхетаме а‚ къинхетаме а волчу Делан цIарца.
#Хастам бу Далла – Iаламийн Дена.
#Ша сов къинхетаме‚ къинхетаме волчу.
#Шен долахь бекхаман де долчу.
#Хьуна Iибадат до оха‚ Хьоьга гIо а доьху.
#Нисде Ахь тхо нийсачу новкъа.
#Ахь шайна ниIмат деллачеран  новкъа. Хьо шайна оьгIаз  ца ваханчеран а‚ тила ца беллачеран а новкъа
{{col-2}}
#{{unicode|Şa sow q̇inxetame a‚ q̇inxetame a wolçu Delan ċarca.}}
#{{unicode|Xastam bu Dalla  – jalamiyn Dena.}}
#{{unicode|Şa sow q̇inxetame‚ q̇inxetame wolçu.}}
#{{unicode|Şen dolaẋ beqaman de dolçu.}}
#{{unicode|Ẋuna jibadat do oxa‚ Ẋöga ġo a döxu.}}
#{{unicode|Nisde aẋ txo niysaçu nowq̇a.}}
#{{unicode|Aẋ şayna nijmat dellaçeran nowq̇a. Ẋo şayna öġaz ca vaxançeran a‚ tila ca bellaçeran a nowq̇a}}
{{col-end}}

===阿瓦爾語===
{{col-begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Жив ГурхІулев, гурхІел гІаммав, Аллагьасул цІаралдалъун.
# Кинабниги рецц Аллагьасе буго — гІаламалъул БетІергьанлъун вугев,
# Дунялалда киназдаго, ахираталда муъминасда гурони гурхІуларев,
# Къиямасеб Къоялъул БетІергьанлъун Жив вугев!
# ЦохІо Дуе буго Аллагь нижеца лагълъи гьабулеб ва гІицІго Дудасан буго квербакъиги тІалаб гьабулеб;
# Дуца ниж битІараб нухде тІоритІе,
# Дуца жидее кІудиял нигІматал кьуразул нухде тІоритІе, жидеда Дур ццим бахъарал ва жал къосаразул нух гуреб.
{{col-2}}
# Živ Gurħulev, gurħel h̨ammav, Allahasul c̨araldałun.
# Kinabnigi recc Allahase bugo — h̨alamałul Bet̨erhanłun vugev,
# Dunjalalda kinazdago, axiratalda muminasda guroni gurħularev,
# Q̨ijamaseb Q̨ojałul Bet̨erhanłun Živ vugev!
# Coħo Duje bugo Allah nižeca lağłi habuleb va h̨ic̨go Dudasan bugo kverbaq̨igi t̨alab habuleb;
# Duca niž bit̨arab nuxde t̨orit̨e,
# Duca žideje k̨udijal nih̨matal ḱurazul nuxde t̨orit̨e, žideda Dur ccim baqaral va žal q̨osarazul nux gureb.
{{col end}}

===印古什語===
{{col-begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Аллахlа цlераца Къахетаме волча Къахетам беш волча.
# Хоастам Аллахlа ба Кхелла, лоаттадеш Волча lаламаш,
# Къахетаме волча Къахетам беш волча,
# Ший доалахьа долаш Вола бекхаман ди.
# Хьона цхьаннена lибадат ду оаха Хьогара цхьаннегара гlо а  деха оаха;
# Нийсде lа тхо наькъ тlа нийса болча,
# наькъ тlа цу наьха (наькъ тlа) Iaйха ниlмат даннача шоашта тlехьа эгlазваха воацачар шоашта тlехьа тувлабенна боацачар а тувлабенна боацачар а.
{{col-2}}
# Allaxla cljeraca Q’axjetamje volča Q’axjetam bješ volča.
# Xoastam Allaxla ba Kxjella, loattadješ Volča lalamaš,
# Q’axjetamje volča Q’axjetam bješ volča,
# Šij doalax’a dolaš Vola bjeqaman di.
# X’ona cx’annjena libadat du oaxa X’ogara cx’annjegara glo a  djexa oaxa;
# Nijsdje la txo na’q’ tla nijsa bolča,
# na’q’ tla cu na’xa (na’q’ tla) Iajxa ni'mat dannača šoašta tljex’a eglazvaxa voacačar šoašta tljex’a tuvlabjenna boacačar a tuvlabjenna boacačar a.
{{col end}}

==南高加索語系==
===格魯吉亞語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# სახელითა ღმერთისა, მოწყალისა, მწყალობლისა.
# ქება ღმერთს, უფალს სამყაროთა,
# მოწყალესა, მწყალობელსა.
# სამსჯავროს დღის მბრძანებელსა.
# მხოლოდ შენა გმონებთ და მხოლოდ შენ გთხოვთ შეწევნას.
# გვიწინამძღვრე პირდაპირი გზით;
# იმათი გზით, რომელთაც მიეცი მოწყალება; არა – შერისხულთა და არცა – გზააბნეულთა.
{{col-2}}
# Sakhelita Ghmertisa, mots’q’alisa, mts’q’aloblisa.
# Keba Ghmerts, upals samq’arota,
# Mots’q’alesa, mts’q’alobelsa.
# Samsjavros dghis mbrdzanebelsa.
# Mkholod shena gmonebt da mkholod shen gtkhovt shets’evnas.
# Gvits’inamdzghvre p’irdap’iri gzit;
# Imati gzit, romeltats mietsi mots’q’aleba; ara – sheriskhulta da artsa – gzaabneulta.
{{col end}}

==巴斯克語==
# Jainkoaren, Errukiorraren, Bihozberaren izenean.
# Aintza Jainkoari munduen Jauna,
# Errukiorra, Bihozbera,
# Saritze Eguneko Erregea.
# Zu bakarrik Adoratzen zaitugu, Zugan bakarrik bilatzen dugu laguntza;
# Gida gaitzazu bide zuzenetik,
# Mesedez bete dituzunen bidetik, ez haserrearen zergatia direnenetik, ezta desbideratuen bidetik ere.

==烏拉爾語系==
===愛沙尼亞語===
#Jumala, kõige Armulisema, Halastavama nimel,
#ülistus olgu Jumalale, maailmade Isandale,
#Kõige Armulisemale, Halastavamale,
#Viimsepäeva Kuningale.
#Sind me kummardame ja Sind kutsume appi.
#Näita meile õiget teed,
#nende teed, keda Sa oled õnnistanud, mitte nende teed, kes on Sind vihastanud, ega nende teed, kes on läinud valesti.

===芬蘭語===
#Ylistys Jumalalle, maailmojen Valtiaalle,
#armolahjojen Antajalle, laupiaalle Ohjaajalle ja Siunaajalle,
#jonka hallussa yksin on Tilinteon päivä.
#Sinua ainoata palvelemme, Sinua huudamme avuksi.
#Ohjaa meidät oikeata tietä,
#niiden tietä, joiden osana on Sinun mielisuosiosi
#ei niiden tietä, jotka ovat Sinun vihasi alaisia, eikä niiden, jotka harhaan eksyvät.

===匈牙利語===
# Isten, a könyörületes és az irgalmas nevében.
# Dicsőség Istennek, a teremtmények Urának,
# A könyörületesenek és az irgalmasnak.
# Aki az Ítélet Napját uralja.
# Néked szolgálunk és hozzád fordulunk segítségért;
# Vezess minket az egyenes úton,
# Azoknak az útján, akik iránt kegyesnek mutatkoztál, s ne azokén, akiket haragvásod sújt, sem a tévelygőkén!

==愛斯基摩－阿留申語系==
===西因紐特語===
#Ulapiqhautialuk, Naglingniqalaaq, Guutiup atingani
#Qilangmiluktaaq Guutigiyauyuq, niqtuqtauli Guuti
#Ulapiqhautialuk, Naglingniqalaaq
#Ihuqanngittumut ihumataryuaq
#Apiqhuqtaurli, niqtuqtaurli
#Hivunikhaqhiarmut ikayuqtigut
#Tamaqhimayuglu, qipagiyauhimayut amma piuliyauhimayut tamarmik Guutiup pigiyai

===東因紐特語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
#Ulapiqsautialuk, Naglingniqalaaq, Guutiup atingani
#Qilammiluktaaq Guutigijaujuq, niqtuqtauli Guuti
#Ulapiqsautialuk, Naglingniqalaaq
#Isuqanngittumut isumatarjuaq
#Apiqsuqtaurli, niqtuqtaurli
#Sivuniksaqsiarmut ikajuqtigut
#Tamaqsimajullu, qipagijausimajut amma piulijausimajut tamarmik Guutiup pigijai
{{col-2}}
#ᐅᓚᐱᖅᓴᐅᑎᐊᓗᒃ, ᓇᒡᓕᖕᓂᖃᓛᖅ, ᒎᑎᐅᑉ ᐊᑎᖓᓂ
#ᕿᓚᒻᒥᓗᒃᑖᖅ ᒎᑎᒋᔭᐅᔪᖅ, ᓂᖅᑐᖅᑕᐅᓕ ᒎᑎ
#ᐅᓚᐱᖅᓴᐅᑎᐊᓗᒃ, ᓇᒡᓕᖕᓂᖃᓛᖅ
#ᐃᓱᖃᙱᑦᑐᒧᑦ ᐃᓱᒪᑕᕐᔪᐊᖅ
#ᐊᐱᖅᓱᖅᑕᐅᕐᓕ, ᓂᖅᑐᖅᑕᐅᕐᓕ
#ᓯᕗᓂᒃᓴᖅᓯᐊᕐᒧᑦ ᐃᑲᔪᖅᑎᒍᑦ
#ᑕᒪᖅᓯᒪᔪᓪᓗ, ᕿᐸᒋᔭᐅᓯᒪᔪᑦ ᐊᒻᒪ ᐱᐅᓕᔭᐅᓯᒪᔪᑦ ᑕᒪᕐᒥᒃ ᒎᑎᐅᑉ ᐱᒋᔦ
{{col end}}

==南島語系==
===巽他－蘇拉威西語族===
====印尼语====
#Dengan menyebut nama Allah Yang Maha Pemurah lagi Maha Penyayang
#Segala puji bagi Allah, Tuhan semesta alam,
#Yang Maha Pemurah lagi Maha Penyayang,
#Yang menguasai hari pembalasan.
#Hanya kepada Engkaulah kami menyembah dan hanya kepada Engkaulah kami mohon pertolongan;
#Tunjukilah kami jalan yang lurus,
#(yaitu) jalan orang-orang yang telah Engkau anugerahkan nikmat kepada mereka; bukan jalan mereka yang dimurkai dan bukan pula jalan mereka yang sesat.

====馬來語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Dengan nama Allah, Yang Maha Pemurah, lagi Maha Mengasihani.
# Segala puji tertentu bagi Allah, Tuhan yang Memelihara dan Mentadbirkan sekalian alam.
# Yang Maha Pemurah, lagi Maha Mengasihani.
# Yang Menguasai pemerintahan hari Pembalasan (hari akhirat).
# Engkaulah sahaja Yang Kami sembah dan kepada Engkaulah sahaja kami memohon pertolongan.
# Tunjukilah kami jalan yang lurus.
# Iaitu jalan orang-orang yang Engkau telah kurniakan nikmat kepada mereka, bukan (jalan) orang-orang yang Engkau telah murkai dan bukan pula (jalan) orang-orang yang sesat.
{{col-2}}
# دڠن نام الله يڠ مها ڤموره لاݢي مها مڠاسيهني
# سݢالا ڤوجي ترتنتو باݢي الله، توهن يڠ ممليهارا دان منتدبيرکن سکالين عالم
# يڠ مها ڤموره لاݢي مها مڠاسيهني
# يڠ مڠواساءي ڤمرينتهن هاري ڤمبالسن (هاري آخرة)
# اڠکاوله سهاج يڠ کامي سمبه دان کڤد اڠکاوله سهاج کامي مموهون ڤرتولوڠن
# تونجوقيله کامي جالن يڠ لوروس
# ياءيت جالن اورڠ٢ يڠ اڠکاو تله کورنياکن نعمت کڤد مريک، بوکن جالن اورڠ يڠ تله اڠکاو مورکاءي دان بوکن ڤولا جالن اورڠ٢ يڠ سست
{{col end}}

====嘉昆語====
# Dengon nama Allah yang amat pemurah amat mengasihani.
# Segala puji bagi Allah, Tohan sekalion alam,
# Amat pemurah amat mengasihani,
# Raja hari pembalasan.
# Akan Aih kam sembah, akan Aih kam mohon pertolongan;
# Tunjuk lah kam jalan yang lurus,
# Jalan yang Aih hagik nikmat, bong jalan yang Aih marah, dan bong jalan yang sesat.

====米南佳保語====
# Dangan manyabuik namo Allah nan Maha Pamurah jo Maha Panyayang.
# Sagalo puji untuak Allah, Tuhan alam sadonyo,
# Nan Maha Pamurah jo Maha Panyayang,
# Nan manguwasoi hari pambalehan.
# Hanyo angkaulah nan kami sambah, hanyo kapado Angkaulah kami mintak patolongan;
# Tunjuakkanlah kami jalan nan luruih,
# Jalan urang-urang nan alah Angkau agiah nikmat kapadonyo, bukan jalan urang-urang nan kanai bangih, bukan pulo jalan urang-urang nan sasek.

====伊班語====
# Enggau nama Allah, Petara ti Pemadu Manah sereta ti Pemadu Sayau.
# Semua puji dituju ngagai Allah, Petara semua alam,<ref>Alam ianya semua utai ti digaga Petara, baka bumi, langit enggau menua sebayan (akhirat), pia mega utai idup enggau utai mati, baka mensia, jelu, rumput, kayu, tanah, ai, api, enggau angin.</ref>
# Iya ti Pemadu Manah sereta ti Pemadu Sayau,
# Iya bekuasa ba Hari Bebalas.<ref>Akhirat tauka menua sebayan ianya menua endur bala mensia diidupka baru udah sida iya mati; ba menua tu meh bala mensia nerima balas pemanah enggau penyai semua pengawa ti udah digaga sida iya dunya suba.</ref>
# Semina Nuan aja Petara ti kami nyembah, lalu ngagai Nuan aja meh endur kami minta tulung;
# Tunjuk meh ngagai kami jalai ti jurus,
# Ianya jalai sida iya ti udah Nuan beri pengelantang, tang ukai jalai urang ti ngeringat ka Nuan, lalu ukai mega jalai sida iya ti tesat.

====肯達央語====
# Barakat nyabut dama Allah nang Maha Pangasih, Maha Panyayang.
# Sagala puji bagi Allah, Tuhan saluruh alam,
# Nang Maha Pangasih, Maha Panyayang,
# Ampu’ ari pambalasan.
# Hanya ka’ kita’lah kami nyambah nan hanya ka’ kita’lah kami mohon patolongan;
# Tele’ ka’ kami maraga nang lurus,
# (Iala) maraga urukng nang udah kita’ bare nikmat ka’ ia; buke’ maraga iaka’ koa nang dimurkai, dan buke’ (uga maraga) iaka’ koa nang sasat.

====亞齊語====
# Ngon nan Allah Nyang That Peumurah lom nyang That Geumaséh.
# Mandum pujoë (milék) muwoë keu Allah, Tuhan nyang po mandum alam,
# Nyang that peumurah ngon nyang that geumaséh,
# Raja (nyang mat kuasa) bak uroë balasan.
# Keu Droëneuh sagai nyang kamoë seumah ngon bak Droëneuh mantong nyang kamoë meulakèë tulông;
# Neupeutunyok kamoë bak ra'uëh nyang beutôi,
# Ra'uëh nyang ka Neubri nèkmat keu ureuëng nyan (para nabi ngon rasul), bukon (ra'uëh) ureuëng-ureuëng nyang geubeungèh ngön kön ra'uëh ureuëng-ureuëng nyang seusat.

====西占語 (磅湛省)====
# Song Angan Allah Po kong Saphut Marah dan Saphut Anit Ranam.
# Hadom hadom mayaom nuw wek Allah Po tong abih alam,
# Po Kong Saphut Marah dan Anit Ranam,
# Po kong truet tra tong abih alam.
# He yeh kong kau kakuh dan he yeh kong kau likaw brei dong;
# Tacaei pata hai waik jalan kong Siam dan jalan kong njuw,
# Calan kong Urang hu hi brei nemat bloh di ngok tong abih nhu.

====西占語 (朱篤市)====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Hong Angan Allah, Po kung phöt-phöt Muğah, gāïk phöt-phöt Anit Ğanam. 
# Hadom-dom mayöm wek nao pak Allah Po tong abih alam, 
# Po Kung Phöt-phöt Muğah, gāïk Phöt-phöt Anit Ğanam, 
# Po kung Katua Jumğah tong abih alam. 
# Pak Hâ yeh kung kön kau kakuh dan pak hâ yeh kung kön kau pok likau padong; 
# Tacei ka kön kau hai wék jalan kung siăm hong njâwk. 
# Jalan kung uğang-uğang Hâ bloh b'ğei niĕkmat ka abihnyu, oh biak jalan kung abihnyu hu bğei ganöng kö oh biak jalan kung abihnyu nāo wê. 
{{col-2}}
# ۆڠ اڠن اللّه، ڤۉ كوڠ فهْۆت٢ موغه، ݢايء فهْۆت٢ انيت غنام
# هدۉم٢ مَيۉم واۡء نآو ڤاء اللّه ڤۉ تۆڠ ابيه عالم
# ڤۉ كوڠ فهْۆت٢ موغه، ݢايء فهْۆت٢ انيت غنام
# ڤۉ كوڠ كَتۆا جومغه تۆڠ ابيه عالم
# ڤاء هاۛ ياۡه كوڠ كۆنكاو ككوه دان ڤاء هاۛ ياۡه كوڠ كۆنكاو ڤۉٓء ليكاو ڤادۆڠ
# تچاي كا كۆنكاو هآي وێء جلآن كوڠ سێام هۆڠ څهْاوء
# جلآن كوڠاوغاڠ٢ هاۛ بلۆه بغاي نعمت كا ابيهپو، عۉه بێاء جلآن كوڠ ابيهپو هو بغاي ݢنۉٓڠ كۆ عۉه بێاء جلآن كوڠ ابيهپو نآو وێ
{{col end}}

====東占語 (藩朗市)====
# Saong Angan Awluah, Po seng biak-biak Barakhah, saong tra biak-biak Anit Ranam. 
# Hadom-dom mayom wek nao pak Awluah Po ka abih alam, 
# Po Seng Biak-biak Barakhah, sang tra Biak-biak Anit Ranam, 
# Po seng Haluw Janang Jamrah ka abih alam. 
# Pak Hâ yeh seng manaok klaong maliéng kanâ su pak Hâ yeh seng manaok klaong pok langkar padong; 
# Tacei ka manaok klaong hai mék jalan seng siăm thong njep. 
# Jalan seng urang-urang Hâ bloh brei phuel ka manaoknyu, oh biak jalan seng manaoknyu hu brei ginaong kaow oh biak jalan seng manaoknyu nao waiy. 

====巴塔克語 (昂科拉方言)====
# Dohot goar ni Allah Na Lobi Parholong boti Na Uli Basa.
# Sude puji nampuna ni Allah, Tuhan na pature alam raya on,
# (Tuhan) Na Lobi Parholong boti Na Uli Basa,
# (Tuhan) Na manggonggom ari pambalosan (akherat).
# Hum tu Ho do hami manyomba jana hum tu Ho do hami mangkolos;
# Lehen ma partunjuk tu hami (anso hami totop) di dalan na tigor,
# (I ma) dalan ni halak na dung dilehen-Mu nikmat tu halahi, inda (dalan ni) halak na hona dumpur, inda muse (dalan ni) halak lilu.

====巴塔克語 (托巴方言)====
# Dohot Goar ni Debata (Allah), Parasiroha, Naulibasa.
# Saluhutna pujipujian holan tu Debata (Allah) do, ima Tuhan Sigomgom Saluhut,
# Parasiroha, Naulibasa,
# Namarhuaso di ari nanaeng ro i.
# Holan tu Ho do hami manomba jala holan tu Ho do hami mangido pangurupion;
# Boan ma hami tu dalan na tigor i,
# Ima dalan na tigor songon naung ni lehon-Mu Panondang tu nasida, alai ndang dalan naung tinaon ni angka na nimurukan-Mu dungi ndang dalan ni jolma angka na lilu i.

====楠榜語====
# Ghik gelakh Allah sai Maha Panyimah ghik Maha Panyayang.
# Saunyin puji guwai Allah, Tuhan semesta alam,
# Maha Panyimah ghik Maha Panyayang,
# Sai nguasai di hani pambalesan.
# Gelung Pusikam sai gham ghumpok sembah, ghik haguk Pusikam gham ghumpok ngilu tulung;
# Culukko gham ghumpok ghanglaya sai tebeng,
# Yakdo, ghanglaya ulun-ulun sai ghaduh Pusikam juk nikmat haguk tiyan ghumpok, lain (ghanglaya) tiyan ghumpok sai dimurkai, ghik lain (munih ghanglaya) tiyan ghumpok sai sesat.

====巽他語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
#Kalayan asma Alloh, Nu Maha Murah, Nu Maha Asih.
#Sadaya puji kagungan Alloh, Pangéran nu murbeng alam,
#Nu Maha Murah, Nu Maha Asih,
#Nu ngawasa poé balitungan.
#Mung ka Gusti abdi sadaya ibadah, sareng mung ka Gusti abdi sadaya neda pitulung;
#Mugi Gusti maparin pituduh ka abdi sadaya kana jalan anu lempeng,
#Nyaéta jalan jalmi-jalmi anu parantos dipaparin ni'mat ku Gusti, sanés jalan jalmi-jalmi anu kénging bebendon ti Gusti, sareng sanés jalan jalmi-jalmi anu salasar.
{{col-2}}
# ᮊᮜᮚᮔ᮪ ᮃᮞ᮪ᮙ ᮃᮜᮣᮂ ᮔᮥ ᮙᮠ ᮙᮥᮛᮂ ᮔᮥ ᮙᮠ ᮃᮞᮤᮂ.
# ᮞᮓᮚ ᮕᮥᮏᮤ ᮊᮌᮥᮍᮔ᮪ ᮃᮜᮣᮂ ᮕᮦᮍᮛᮔ᮪ ᮔᮥ ᮙᮥᮁᮘᮨᮀ ᮃᮜᮙ᮪,
# ᮔᮥ ᮙᮠ ᮙᮥᮛᮂ ᮔᮥ ᮙᮠ ᮃᮞᮤᮂ,
# ᮔᮥ ᮍᮝᮞ ᮕᮧᮆ ᮘᮜᮤᮒᮥᮍᮔ᮪.
# ᮙᮥᮀ ᮊ ᮌᮥᮞ᮪ᮒᮤ ᮃᮘ᮪ᮓᮤ ᮞᮓᮚ ᮄᮘᮓᮂ ᮞᮛᮨᮀ ᮙᮥᮀ ᮊ ᮌᮥᮞ᮪ᮒᮤ ᮃᮘ᮪ᮓᮤ ᮞᮓᮚ ᮔᮨᮓ ᮕᮤᮒᮥᮜᮥᮀ;
# ᮙᮥᮌᮤ ᮌᮥᮞ᮪ᮒᮤ ᮙᮕᮛᮤᮔ᮪ ᮕᮤᮒᮥᮓᮥᮂ ᮊ ᮃᮘ᮪ᮓᮤ ᮞᮓᮚ ᮊᮔ ᮏᮜᮔ᮪ ᮃᮔᮥ ᮜᮨᮙ᮪ᮕᮨᮀ,
# ᮑᮆᮒ ᮏᮜᮔ᮪ ᮏᮜ᮪ᮙᮤ-ᮏᮜ᮪ᮙᮤ ᮃᮔᮥ ᮕᮛᮔ᮪ᮒᮧᮞ᮪ ᮓᮤᮕᮕᮛᮤᮔ᮪ ᮔᮤᮊ᮪ᮙᮒ᮪ ᮊᮥ ᮌᮥᮞ᮪ᮒᮤ, ᮞᮦᮔᮞ᮪ ᮏᮜᮔ᮪ ᮏᮜ᮪ᮙᮤ-ᮏᮜ᮪ᮙᮤ ᮃᮔᮥ ᮦᮊᮍᮤᮀ ᮘᮨᮘᮨᮔ᮪ᮓᮧᮔ᮪ ᮒᮤ ᮌᮥᮞ᮪ᮒᮤ, ᮞᮛᮨᮀ ᮞᮦᮔᮞ᮪ ᮏᮜᮔ᮪ ᮏᮜ᮪ᮙᮤ-ᮏᮜ᮪ᮙᮤ ᮃᮔᮥ ᮞᮜᮞᮁ.
{{col end}}

====爪哇語====
# Kanthi nyebat asma Allah Ingkang Maha Mirah tur Ingkang Maha Asih.
# Sedaten puji punika kagunganipun Allah ingkang mangèrani alam saisinipun,
# Ingkang Maha Mirah lan ugi Ingkang Maha Asih,
# Ingkang nggadhahi ing dinten agami.<ref>Dinten wekdal cagak-cagak nerima pawangsulan sadaya amal kang dilakoni ing ndonyo.</ref>
# Namung dhumateng Paduka kawula manembah, lan namung dhumateng Paduka kawula nyuwun pitulungan;
# Dhuh Allah, mugi nedhahaken margi ingkang leres dhumateng kawula,
# (Inggih punika) marginipun para tiyang ingkang Paduka sami paringi nikmat sanès marginipun tiyang ingkang Panjenengan paringi bendu lan tiyang ingkang sami kesasar.

====馬都拉語====
# Kalabȃn (nyebbhut) asma Allah Sè Maha Bellȃs sareng Maha Nèser.
# (Sadhȃjȃ) pojhi kaaghunganèpon Allah, Pangèranèpon sadhȃjȃ alam,
# Sè Maha Bellȃs sareng Maha Nèser,
# Sè ngobȃsae dhina bȃlessȃn.
# Namong dȃ' Ajunan (Allah) kaulȃ sadhȃjȃ nyembhȃ, sareng namong dȃ' Ajunan (Allah), kaulȃ sadhȃjȃ nyo'on pertolongan;
# Ajunan tunjuki kaulȃ sadhȃjȃ jhâlân sè loros,
# (Èngghi panèka) jhâlân rèng-orèng sè Ajunan anuggra'agi nikmat dhâ' mereka, bânnè (jhâlân) mereka sè dimorka sareng bânnè (jhughân jhâlân) mereka sè messat.

====巴厘語====
# Meduluran pasuwecan Ida Sang Hyang Widi, Ida sane kalintang suweca, Ida same kalintang mepaica.
# Sehamaning sesembahan katur keragan Ida, Ida same ngardinin jagate sami,
# Ida same kalintang suweca, Ida same kalintang mepaica,
# Ida sane neruwenang ritatkala rahina pala karma.
# Ida kewanten genah ngemedalang pekewuh, miwah Ida kesanten genah nunas sica;
# Tuntun titiang ring margine sane manggihin kerahayuan,
# Margi same sampun kemarginin, olih sane sampun keicen kerahayuan, nenten margin ipun sane kepastu, miwah nenten margin ipun sane iwang pemargi.

====薩薩克語====
# Sareng ngucap aran Allah si Maha Pengasih dait Maha Penyayang,
# Selapuq puji tipaq Allah, Neneq sekalian alam,
# Si Maha Pengasih dait Maha Penyayang,
# Si ndoweang jelo pembalesan.
# Dekaji doang si kami sembah, dait Dekaji doang taoq kami pade nunasan tulung;  
# Petitoq kami langan saq lomboq,
# Langan dengan-dengan si sampun Dekaji icanin nikmat, endeqne langan dengan si temenggahin dait endeqne langan dengan si seset.

====布吉語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Nasa ba' asengna Puang Allah Ta'ala iyya mesero mabbere na masero makkamase.
# Idi'mi Puang Onrong sininna rampe rampe madeceng (akkasiwiangnge),
# Puang Masero Pamasei na Masero Mabbere,
# Puang makkatenniwi Esso Ri Monri (Esso Pamale').
# Idi'mi Puang Ri Sompa na Idi'mi U wonroi mellau Tulung;
# E' Puang, Jellokengnga' Laleng MalempuE,
# Iyyanaritu Laleng patujue, laleng To Riamesie, tani laleng Mu bacciE na taniato laleng mappakabiling mpilingE.
{{col-2}}
# ᨊᨔᨅ ᨕᨔᨛᨊ ᨄᨘᨓ ᨕᨒ ᨈᨕᨒ ᨕᨗᨐ ᨆᨙᨔᨙᨑᨚ ᨆᨅᨙᨑᨙ ᨊ ᨆᨔᨙᨑᨚ ᨆᨀᨆᨔᨙ᨞
# ᨕᨗᨉᨗᨆᨗ ᨄᨘᨓ ᨕᨚᨑᨚ ᨔᨗᨊᨗᨊ ᨑᨇᨙᨑᨃᨙ ᨆᨉᨙᨌᨙ (ᨕᨀᨔᨗᨓᨗᨕᨂᨙ)᨞
# ᨄᨘᨓ ᨆᨔᨙᨑᨚ ᨄᨆᨔᨙᨕᨗ ᨊ ᨆᨔᨙᨑᨚ ᨆᨅᨙᨑᨙ᨞
# ᨄᨘᨓ ᨆᨀᨈᨛᨊᨗᨓᨗ ᨕᨙᨔᨚ ᨑᨗ ᨆᨚᨋᨗ (ᨕᨙᨔᨚ ᨄᨆᨒᨙ)᨞
# ᨕᨗᨉᨗᨆᨗ ᨄᨘᨓ ᨑᨗ ᨔᨚᨇ ᨊ ᨕᨗᨉᨗ ᨆᨗ ᨕᨘᨓᨚᨋᨚᨕᨗ ᨆᨙᨒᨔᨘ ᨈᨘᨒᨘ᨞
# ᨕᨙ ᨄᨘᨓ᨞ ᨍᨛᨒᨚᨀᨙᨂ ᨒᨒᨛ ᨆᨒᨛᨇᨘᨕᨙ᨞
# ᨕᨗᨐᨆᨗᨈᨘ ᨒᨒᨛ ᨄᨈᨘᨍᨘᨕᨙ᨞ ᨒᨒᨛ ᨑᨗ ᨕᨆᨛᨔᨗᨕᨙ᨞ ᨈᨊᨗ ᨒᨒᨛ ᨆᨘᨅᨌᨗᨕᨙ ᨊ ᨈᨊᨗᨕᨈᨚ ᨒᨒᨛ ᨆᨄᨀᨅᨗᨒᨗ ᨇᨗᨒᨗᨂᨙ᨞᨟
{{col end}}

====望加錫語====
# Nisero kanai arenna Allah Ta’ala, Karaeng lammoroka massare na sarrowa mangngamaseang.
# Sikamma pammujia Allah Ta’ala ngasengji pata,
# Karaeng lammoroka massare na sarrowa mangngamaseang,
# Karaeng iyya ampatangi allo ribokoa.
# Ikauji  Karaeng  kusomba,  siagang  Ikau  tonji  Karaeng tampa’ pappala tulungku;
# Sarea  pappijo’jo  Karaeng  mange  ri  a’rungang malambusuka,
# (Iami  antu)  a’runganna  tau  le’ba  nusarea  dalle’ pappinyamang;  Teai  (a’runganna)  tau  iyya  nusarea pakkalarro, siagang teai tongi (a’runganna) tau niaka malingu.

====托拉查語====
# Sisola sangan-Na Puang Allah Ta'ala la'bi Mamase sia la'bi Ma'pakaboro.
# Mintu'na pa'pudian lulako manna iyya Puang Allah Ta'ala, Puang mintu'na angga maritik,
# Puang la'bi Mamase sia la'bi Ma'pakaboro',
# Puang tu unnampoi allo pa'balaran.
# Lulako manna iyya kale-Mi Puang kinai menombah sia lulako manna duka iyya kale-Mi kinai umpeta'da pa'tunduan;
# Tadulluan kanni dikka' Puang tu lalan malambu',
# (Iyya motu) lalanna tau mangka Ta-bengan Puang pa'kamasean lako kalena, tannia lalanna lako tu tau maduraka sia tannia duka lalanna tau pusa.

====曼達爾語====
# Sawa' sangana Puang Alla Taala, (Puang Iya) Masayang na Makkesayang.
# Inggannana pappuji di Puang Alla Taala nasangi, Puang inggannana alang,
# (Puang Iya) Masayang na Makkesayang,
# (Puang Iya) Makkuasai allo diboe'.
# I'omo tu'u disomba, l'o tomo diperau tulungngi;
# Patiroi iyami' tangalalang malampu (maroro),
# Tangalalang to iya pura Mubei pappenyamang; tania (tangalalanna) to Mucalla anna tania to'o (tangalalanna) to Mupappusa.

====卡利語====
# Ante Morampe Sanga Allah Ta'ala Neliu Pekasiani-Na bo Neliu Pepotove-Na.
# Toiya njumangu aga ka Allah Ta'ala nu dunia njumangu,
# Neliu Pekasiani-Na bo Neliu Pepotove-Na,
# Nakuasa ri eo nggapurina.
# Aga ri Komiu kami nanyomba bo aga ri Komiu muni kami nerapi petulungi;
# Tuduaka ka kami dala nanoa,
# Dala geira nidekeika Miu kabeloa (pompesana), ledo dala geira nipokarauka miu, bo ledo muni geira nasalandala.

===婆羅－菲律賓語族===
====蒙貢多語====
# Doyonon kon Tangoi Allah Ta Mahamongasi' Mahaotabi.
# Bayongan puji kon Allah, Tuhan kon dunia na'a,
# Ina Mahamongasi' Mahaotabi,
# Ta kitogi singgai pononuli'an.
# Tonga'bi' kon ini-Mu kami mosumbah bo tonga'bi' kon ini-Mu kami mo ki tulung;
# Tundu' pa kon i nami dalan inta motulid,
# Dalan monia inta aindon inogoyan-Mu nikmat kon i monia de'eman dalan monia inta sinoru'an-Mu, bo de'eman doman dalan monia ta no'itabat.

====拉讓語====
# Lem gen Allah, de kembiak penyayang ngen penuak kasiak.
# Kute pujai utuk Allah, Tuhan alam semesta,
# De kembiak penyayang ngen penuak kasiak,
# De kemuaso Bilai Penghakiman.
# Cuma Koba keme nyembeak, ngen-Koba keme minoi tulung;
# Tunjukba keme dalen de lu'us,
# Dalen tun-tun de Ko melei ngen tobo'o nikmat, isone dalen tun-tun de Ko mengiak ngen tobo'o, isone dalen tun-tun de sesat.

====比達友語====
# Ngga adŭn Allah, adi Mandis ka adi Masi.
# Sopŭrŭg puji yŭn Allah, Tapa adi nguasa ndi ong ong,
# Ayŭh inŭh Mandis buang Masi,
# Ayŭh inŭh adi nguasa Andu Bisara.
# Ka'am sadi adŭ adi kieh nyambah, ka so Ka'am sadi adŭ adi kieh mite turung;
# Nguru kieh kadŭg aran adi tŭnggŭn,
# Inŭh aran ngara adi Ka'am mbŭh nggen nikmat di ngara, dŭh aran ngara adi yŭn Ka'am adu adu baji, ka dŭh aran ngara adi mbŭh manyap.

====隆巴旺語====
# Dengan ngadan Allah, luk méi' idi mawa, idi luk na malé museh.
# Amung ubur kuan Allah, Tuhan luk melalud ngimet aput-aput tana' idi langit,
# Luk méi' idi mawa, idi luk na malé museh,
# Luk melalud pa' Aco Ngukum.
# Namu sebuleng mo' luk kai sembayang, idi rat Namu sebuleng mo' kai mutuh pedengan;
# Nguyut nekai maya' dalan luk mesiri,
# Dalan lemulun luk pangeh biré-Mu nedeh nikmat, baken dalan lemulun luk inan-Mu megateh, idi baken dalan lemulun luk neraruh.

====姆鲁語====
# Ralalom inggalan ru Allah, ondo' napanu' ra asi' am kimasi'.
# Omporo' noyo Allah, Tuhan titikop ru tana' ti.
# Ondo' napanu' ra asi' am kimasi'.
# Ondo' manguasa' ra Orou Pangukuman.
# (Iou Allah,) makasamba akai Rirun, am makiindangan akai Rirun;
# Tului' akai ra ralan ondo' mabanis,
# Ralan ru ulun-ulun ondo' aniin Muno ra kaansukan, sala' ka ralan ru ulun-ulun ondo' sangitin Muno, am sala' ka ralan ru ulun-ulun ondo' makalayau.<ref>Ondo' kalo siminugut ra ralan motopot.</ref>

====馬蘭諾語====
# Ngan ngadan Allah Taala, Wak Kajih Diak, sereta Kajih Masek.
# Segala puji gak Allah Taala, Tuhan wak Menya'ak jegem Mentadbir seiloh langit jegem tanak.
# Wak Kajih Diak, sereta Kajih Masek.
# Wak Menguasa peritah lau Kejian (lau kiamet).
# Ka'au un lah wak senebah melou jegem Gak Nou un lah melou menyabek tuluongan.
# Tijun lah melou jalan wak luruih.
# Ien lah jalan tenawan-tenawan wak nidok Nou suwik, nda (jalan) tenawan-tenawan wak kenebajik Nou jegem nda kawak (jalan) tenawan-tenawan wak ma'ap.

====唐巴諾語====
# So ngaran nu Allah, Kinoringan nu obintahak om obinsianan.
# Kiawi rayou so Allah, Kinoringan nu minomiara om mogkowasa so kiawi wonuo.
# Labi po obintahak om obinsianan.
# Kikowasa nu pogkowasaon so runat nu ponuloyan. 
# Ikau yah ido nu indikai sombaon om Ikau yah ido nu ontong nu pokitulungon mai. 
# Tuduki yoh kai lalan nu otulid. 
# Yairi lalan nu tinahakan Mu barakat so uripon Mu nu nopomaid so Ikau om ingko ko lalan nu nobolikogan mu, om ingkokoya lalan nu opalid.

====卡達山語====
# Id ngaan do Minamangun (Allah), dii Totuzu, dii Tobinsianan.
# Savi-avi kaazaan nga montok do Minamangun (Allah), iih Vozoon do vinoun,
# Dii Totuzu, dii Tobinsianan,
# Momumuan do Tadau Koponontuan.
# Doid Diau sosondii noh zikoi sumamba om doid Diau sosondii noh nogi zikoi do mokianu tutuhung;
# Potunudo noh zikoi doid lahan dii totopot,
# Lahan dioho dii noonuan Nu do balakat, dioho dii au nakaanu do hohodong Nu, om dioho dii au nangakaahau.

====杜順語====
# Miampai di ngaran Minamangun (Allah) id obintahak om obinsianan. 
# Kuma'a rayao Minamangun (Allah), Tuhan toinsanan ti pomogunan, 
# It obintahak om obinsianan, 
# It monguasai tadau di ponosulian. 
# Ika no Minamangun it sambahaon dagai om Ika pokionuanku do sokodung; 
# Tudukai yahai laran di alahis, 
# Komoyon nopo nga laran tulun-tulun di noonuan Nu dok nikmat kuma'a diyolo, okon ko laran tulun-tulun di katagadan Nu om okon ko laran tulun-tulun di poimpalid.

====陶蘇格語====
# Ha ngān sin Allâh, Bayng Ulungun, lagi Bayng Kasihun.
# Ing katān sanglit iban pudji tuput tunggal ha Allâh, Tuhan Mamalihala sin katān ālam,<ref>Pudji iban sanglit pa Allâh ha manga kasipat-sipatan Niya sampurna’ katān, iban kani’mat-ni’matan Niya matampal (Dhzãhir) iban nakatatapuk (Bãtin), ni’mat pag-Āgama iban pagdunya. Nasākup in pangdaaki Niya pa manga īpun Niya mamudji Kaniya. Tunggal isa-isa Niya in tagkapatutan sin pupudjihan iban sasanglitan. Rab-bil Â-lamîn – iban tuput Siya Mahāsutsi in nagpapanjari ha katān naawn, iban Siya in tag-ukuman ha katān pakaradjāan nila, iban Siya in tag-ipatan ha katān piyapanjari Niya labay rayng ha kani’mat-ni’matan Niya, iban namamandu’ ha manga mattan kakasihan Niya tudju pa pag-īman iban hinang marayaw.</ref>
# Bayng Ulungun,<ref>Ha katān piyapanjari Niya.</ref> lagi Bayng Kasihun,<ref>Ha mga bar-iman dunya mabut pa akhirat.</ref>
# Tagdapu sin Adlaw Qiyamat.<ref>Amuin tagmilik, magbaya'-baya' ha adlaw paghisab ha Adlaw Qiyamat, adlaw pagsaypuwa iban pagtungbas sin katān hinang. Hapagbassa sin hambuuk Muslim sin âyat ini ha tiyap-tiyap rakaat sin sambahayang niya, bilang pagpatumtum kaniya tungud ha adlaw mahuli, iban pamulansang kaniya subay pagsaddiyahan in adlaw ini sin ammal sālih, iban humundung dayng ha hinang maasiyat iban hinang mangiy’.</ref>
# Tuput tunggal Ikaw in pagtag-īpunan (sumbahun) namu' iban tuput tunggal Ikaw in pangayuan namu' (tulung) tabang;<ref>Ha ayat ini, hambuuk dalil ha sabunnāl tuud in iypun di’ niya makajari hitudju in jinisan sin ibādat biya’ sin pagduwaa, pangayu’ tabang, pagsumbayi’, pagtawaf (kuliling) malayngkan tuput tunggal pa Allâh (swt) iban halawm sin ayat ini in ubat sin pangatayan dayng ha sakit pagtaalluk pa rugaing dayng ha Allâh U iban sakit riya’ (pakita’-kita’), pagdihil kaajayban, iban kabantugan.</ref>
# Panduʻi kāmu' pa dān mabuntul,<ref> Tudlu'i kami, iban pandu'i kami, iban tunjuki kami pa dān mabuntul, iban patattapa kami (ha dān yaün) sampay hipagbak namu’ Kaw. Iban amuna ini in Āgama Islam amu in dān masawa hikasampay tudju pa rida’ sin Allâh iban pa Surga’ Niya, amuin piyanghindu’ sin hinapusan daak (Rasul) Niya iban Nabi Niya hi Muhammad, na’ wayy na rugaing dān pa hikasanyang sin hambuuk iypun malaingkan amu ra in magpabuntul ha dān sin Āgama Islam.</ref>
# Dān sin mga sila amuin iyanugharaan Mo sin ni’mat (karayawan) duun kanila,<ref>Dān sin manga sila amu in iyanugharaan Mu ni’mat, dayng ha manga Kanabihan, manga Siddiqūn (nagsasabunnal), manga Parrangsabil iban manga Sālihūn (tau marayaw), sila na in manga tau kiyapanduan iban mabuntul.</ref> bukun dān sin mga sila amuin kiyadugalan Mo sila, iban bukun dān sin mga sila amuin nalalaung.

====伊拉努語====
# Si-i ko ngaran o Allah, a Masalinggagao, a Makalimo-on.
# So Bantogan na ruk o Allah, a Kadnan o manga Kaadun,
# A Masalinggagao, a Makalimo-on,
# A Phapa-ar ko Alongan a Kapamalas.
# Suka bo i Phushowasowatun Nami, go Suka bo i Phanguniyan Nami sa tabang;
# Nggonana-owa kamingka ko okit a Maka-o ontol,
# So okit o siran a ini Kalimo o Ka siran, salakao ko Kiyararangitan Ka sirango salakao ko Mithataridadag.

====馬拉瑙語====
# Sii ko ngaran o Allah, a Masalinggagaw, a Makalimoon. 
# So bantogan na rk o Allah, a Kadnan o manga kaadn; 
# A Masalinggagaw, a Makalimoon; 
# A Phapaar ko alongan a kapamalas. 
# Ska bo i phzoasoatn ami, go Ska bo i phangnian ami sa tabang. 
# Nggonanaowa kaming Ka ko okit a makaoontol, 
# So okit o siran a inikalimoo Ka siran, salakaw ko kiyararangitan Ka siran, go salakaw ko mithataridadag.

====蘇巴農語====
# Tu ngalan nu Allah, su labi gempya, su labi melelat.
# Pegyaen su Allah, Kunutan nu helon nga dunya,
# Su labi gempya, su labi melelat,
# Migbebayá nu Gendaw Hohum.
# Yaa lak su temuyen nami, Yaa lak ami menengi gebang;
# Agak Mu ami tu ledeng dalan,
# Su dalan na bigay Mu tu nga getaw na pingumpyanan Mu, hená tu nga getaw na mihalap hedlenget Mu, hená tu nga getaw mitalin.

====希利蓋農語====
# Sa ngalan sang Allah, nga pinakamaalwan (pinakamabinuligon), pinakamaluluy-on.
# Dayawon ang Allah, ang Ginuo sang mga kalibutan,
# Nga pinakamaalwan (pinakamabinuligon), pinakamaluluy-on.
# Hari (Agalon) sang adlaw sang paghukom.
# Ikaw lang ang amon ginasimba, kag Ikaw lang ang ginapangayu-an namon sang bulig (tabang).
# Tuytoyi kami sa tadlong (husto) nga dalan,
# Ang dalan sang Imo mga ginkahamut-an (ginhatagan sang pabor), indi sang mga nakaagum sang Imo kaakig, ukon sang mga nagtalalang (nagasikway sa Imo).

====宿務語====
# Sa ngalan sa Allah, nga mangiayohon sangatanan ug labing manggiluluy-on.
# Dalayegon ang Allah, Ginoo sa katibuk-an,
# Nga mangiayohon sangatanan ug labing manggiluluy-on,
# Magbubuot sa Adlaw sa Pagpanghukom.
# Kanimo lang kami mosimba ug Kanimo lang kami magpakitabang;
# Giyahan Mo kami sa matul-id nga dalan,
# [Ngadto] sa dalan sa mga tawong gipanalingan Mo, ug dili ngadto sa Imong mga gikasilagan, ni ngadto sa mga nahisalaag.

====比科爾語====
# Sa ngaran kan Allah, an urog na panô nin grasya, an urog na mahihirakon.
# Pag-umawon an Allah, an Kagurangnan kan kinàban,
# An urog na panô nin grasya, an urog na mahihirakon,
# An hadì sa aldaw kan paghuhukom.
# Saimo saná kami minasamba asin saimo saná kami minahagad nin tabang;
# Giyahon mo kami sa dalan na matanos,
# An dalan na linalakawan kan mga tawo na saimong pinaladan bakô an dalan kan mga tawo na nag-ani kan saimong kaanggotan ni kan mga nawarâ sa matanos na dalan.

====他加祿語====
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Sa ngalan ni Allah, ang Magiliw, ang Maawain.
# Purihin nawa si Allah, ang Panginoon ng Sansinukob,
# Ang Magiliw, ang Maawain,
# Ang Pinuno sa Araw ng Paghuhukom.
# Sa Iyo kami ay sumasamba at sa Iyo lang kami humihingi ng tulong;
# Akayin Mo kami sa landas na matuwid,
# Ang landas na tinatahak niyaong Iyong biniyayaan; hindi ang landas niyaong mga umani ng Iyong galit; ni ang landas niyaong mga napariwara.
{{col-2}}
# ᜐ ᜅᜎᜇ᜔ ᜈᜒ ᜀᜎ᜔ᜎᜑ᜔᜵  ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜋᜄᜒᜎᜒᜏ᜔᜵ ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜋᜀᜏᜁᜈ᜔᜶
# ᜉᜓᜇᜒᜑᜒᜈ᜔ ᜈᜏ ᜐᜒ ᜀᜎ᜔ᜎᜑ᜔᜵ ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜉᜅᜒᜈᜓᜂᜈ᜔ ᜅ᜔ ᜐᜈ᜔ᜐᜒᜈᜓᜃᜓᜓᜊ᜔᜵
# ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜋᜄᜒᜎᜒᜏ᜔᜵ ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜋᜀᜏᜁᜈ᜔᜵
# ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜉᜒᜈᜓᜈᜓ ᜐ ᜀᜇᜏ᜔ ᜅ᜔ ᜉᜄ᜔ᜑᜓᜑᜓᜃᜓᜓᜋ᜔᜶
# ᜐ ᜁᜌᜓ ᜃᜋᜒ ᜀᜌ᜔ ᜐᜓᜋᜐᜋ᜔ᜊ ᜀᜆ᜔ ᜐ ᜁᜌᜓ ᜎᜅ᜔ ᜃᜋᜒ ᜑᜓᜋᜒᜑᜒᜅᜒ ᜅ᜔ ᜆᜓᜎᜓᜅ᜔᜵
# ᜀᜃᜌᜒᜈ᜔ ᜋᜓ ᜃᜋᜒ ᜐ ᜎᜈ᜔ᜇᜐ᜔ ᜈ ᜋᜆᜓᜏᜒᜇ᜔᜵
# ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜎᜈ᜔ᜇᜐ᜔ ᜈ ᜆᜒᜈᜆᜑᜃ᜔ ᜈᜒᜌᜂᜅ᜔ ᜁᜌᜓᜅ᜔ ᜊᜒᜈᜒᜌᜌᜀᜈ᜔᜵ ᜑᜒᜈ᜔ᜇᜒ ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜎᜈ᜔ᜇᜐ᜔ ᜈᜒᜌᜂᜅ᜔ ᜋ᜔ᜄ ᜂᜋᜈᜒ ᜅ᜔ ᜁᜌᜓᜅ᜔ ᜄᜎᜒᜆ᜔᜵ ᜈᜒ ᜀᜅ᜔ ᜎᜈ᜔ᜇᜐ᜔ ᜈᜒᜌᜂᜅ᜔ ᜋ᜔ᜄ ᜈᜉᜇᜒᜏᜇ᜶
{{col end}}

====伊洛卡諾語====
# Iti nagan ni Allah, ti Managparabur, ti Manangaasi.
# Madaydayaw ni Allah, ti Apo ti Sangkaparsuaan,
# Ti Managparabur, ti Manangaasi,
# Ti Ari ti Aldaw ti Panagukom.
# Siksika ti pagrukbabanmi, siksika ti pagpatulonganmi;
# Iturongnakami iti nalinteg,
# Iti dalan dagiti paraburam, saan nga iti dalan dagiti pakaguraam wenno dagiti mayaw-awan.

====邦阿西楠語====
# Diad ngaran na Allah, say Maaro, tan Maabagey.
# Idayew komoy Allah ya ari na intiron talba,
# Say Maaro, tan Maabagey,
# Say manangidaolo ed Agew na Panangukom.
# Sikami so mananisia ed sika tan sika labat so kerewan mi pikakasi;
# Sayakop mo kami ed dalan ya mauksoy,
# Say dalan ya panaakaran to et naitday liwawa, aleg ed saray dalan daray angawat na sanok mo, ni anggad saray dalan daray nisagmak.

====庫約語====
# Sa aran ni Allah, ang labing Maayad, ang labing Manonogonon.
# Dayawen da enged si Allah, ang Ginoo 'ang kalibotan nga tanan,
# Ang labing Maayad, ang labing Manonogonon,
# Ang Agalen i' ang Adlaw 'ang Pagokom.
# Kanimo kami lamang magasamba ig Kanimo kami lamang magapakitaw' tabang;
# Giaen Mo kami sa matadleng nga dalan.
# Doto sa dalan i' ang Imong mga ingkaloyan; beken doto sa dalan i' ang Imong mga ingkasilagan, o kabay doto sa dalan i' mga agaralid-alid.

====馬拉加斯語====
# Amin’ny anaran’i Allah Ilay be fiantrana sy be indra fo.
# Dera ho an’i Allah, Tompon’izao tontolo izao.
# Ilay be fiantrana sy be indra fo.
# Mpanjakan’ny andro farany.
# Ianao irery ihany no tompoinay ary ianao irery ihany no angatahanay fanampiana.
# Tariho amin’ny lalana mahitsy izahay.
# Ilay lalan'ireo nomenao sitrakao fa tsy ilay lalan'ireo izay niaran'ny hatezerana, na ireo izay nania.

===波利尼西亞語族===
====图瓦卢語====
#I te igoa o te Atua te Alofa, te Kaimalie.
#A vikiga katoa e o te Atua, te Aliki o lalolagi katoa,
#Te Alofa, te Kaimalie,
#Ko te Matai o te Aso o te Fakamasinoga.
#Ko koe fua e tapuaki atu ei a matou kae ko koe foki e akai atu ei a matou ki se fesoasoani;
#Tataki mai a matou i te alatu tonu,
#I te alatu latou kola ne fakaeke ne koe ou manuia, ko latou kola ne se fakatupu ne latou atou a Tou Kaitaua, mo latou kola ne se takasese keatea.

====薩摩亞語====
# I le suafa o le Atua, o le tele o le alofa fua, le Silisili Alofa.
# Viia ona e le Atua, o le Alii o le Vateatea,
# O le tele o le alofa fua, le Silisili Alofa,
# Matai o le Aso o le Faamasinoga.
# E na o tatou tapuai i ai, ma e na o ia tatou te ole atu mo se fesoasoani;
# Taiala i tatou i le ala saʻo,
# O le ala oi latou oe ua faamanuiaina, e le oi latou oe ua tatau ita, po oi latou oe ua se ese.

====東加語====
# 'I he Huafa 'o e 'Otua ko Mohu Tapuaki, ko Mohu 'Alo'ofa.
# Ke 'o e 'Otua 'a e fakafeta'ia mo e fakamalo'ia kotoa pe,
# Ko e Mohu Kelesi, mo e Mohu Meesi,
# Ko e Pule 'o e 'aho fakamaau.
# Ko Koe Tokotaha pe 'oku mau Lotu ki Ai, pea ko Koe Tokotaha pe 'oku mau ma'u tokoni mei Ai;
# Tataki kimautolu 'i he 'alunga 'o e faitotonu.
# 'A e 'alunga 'o e fa'ahinga 'oku Ke hooifua ki ai, mo Ke fai tapuekina, 'a e 'alunga 'o kinautolu 'oku 'ikai fakatupu houhau ki Ho finangalo, pea mo e 'alunga 'o kinautolu 'oku 'ikai He mei he 'Afiona.

====毛利語====
#I  runga  i  te  Ingoa  o  te Atua  tino  Atawhai, Tohu  mō  ake tonu atu.
#Ki a Atua ngā whakamoemiti katoa, ki te Ariki o ngā ao katoa,
#Ko  ia  e  Atua  tino  Atawhai,  te Atua Tohu mō ake tonu atu,
#Te   Rangatira   Motuhake   anō   hoki o te Rā  Whakawā.
#Ki  a  Koe  anake  e  koropiko  nei  mātou,  Ā,  i  a  Koe  anake  e  rapu  nei  mātou i Tāu āwhina;
#Arahina  mātou  ki  runga  i  te  ara tika,
#Te ara o te hunga i manakohia e  Koe,  kāore  o  te  hunga  i  riria,  i  kotiti  kē.

====夏威夷語====
#Ma ka inoa o ke Akua lokomaikaʻi a manawaleʻa.
#E hoʻomaikaʻiʻia ka Haku o nā ao nei,
#Ke Akua lokomaikaʻi a manawaleʻa,
#ʻO ke Aliʻi o ka lā e hoʻokolokolo.
#ʻOʻoe ka mea a mākou e hoʻomana nei a noi i ke kōkua;
#E alakaʻi iā mākou i ke ala pololei.
#Ke ala o ka poʻe āu i hāʻawi aku ai i ka lokomaikaʻi, ʻaʻole no ka poʻe i hoʻonāukiuki i kou huhū a iʻole paha o ka poʻe i kuhihewa.

==南亞語系==
===越南語===
# Nhân danh Đức Chúa Trời, Đấng Khoan Hậu, Đấng Từ Bị
# Hãy ca ngợi Đức Chúa Trời, Chúa của muôn loài
# Đấng Khoan Hậu, Đấng Từ Bi
# Đấng chủ tọa Ngày Phán Quyết
# Đấng mà chúng ta phải tôn thờ, Đấng mà chúng ta phải cầu xin cứu rỗi
# Xin hãy hướng dẫn chúng tôi đến chính đạo
# Con đường của những kẻ mà Ngài đã giáng phước, những kẻ đã không làm Ngài nổi giận và những kẻ đã không thờ tà đạo

===高棉語===
# ក្នុងនាមអល់ឡោះមហាសប្បុរស មហាអាណិតស្រឡាញ់។
# រាល់ការសរសើរ គឺចំពោះអល់ឡោះដែលជាម្ចាស់គ្រប់គ្រង ពិភពទាំងអស់។
# ជាម្ចាស់មហាសប្បុរស មហាអាណិតស្រឡាញ់។
# ជាសេ្ដច(គ្រប់គ្រង)នៃថ្ងៃជំនុំជំរះ(បរលោក)។
# ចំពោះទ្រង់តែមួយគត់ដែលពួកយើងគោរពសក្ការៈ ហើយ ចំពោះទ្រង់តែមួយគត់ដែលពួកយើងសុំឱ្យជួយ។
# សូមទ្រង់មេត្ដាចង្អុលបង្ហាញដល់ពួកយើងនូវមាគ៌ា ដ៏ត្រឹម ត្រូវផងចុះ។
# គឺមាគ៌ា របស់បណ្ដាអ្នកដែលទ្រង់បានប្រទាននៀកម៉ាត់ ដល់ពួកគេ ពុំមែនជា(មាគ៌ា)អ្នកដែលត្រូវគេខឹងសម្បា និងពុំមែន ជា(មាគ៌ា)ពួកដែលវងេ្វងឡើយ។

==壯侗語系==
===泰語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

#ด้วยพระนามของอัลลอฮฺ ผู้ทรงกรุณาปราณี ผู้ทรงเมตตาเสมอ
#การสรรเสริญทั้งหลายนั้น เป็นสิทธิของอัลลอฮฺผู้เป็นพระเจ้าแห่งสากลโลก
#ผู้ทรงกรุณาปราณี ผู้ทรงเมตตาเสมอ
#ผู้ทรงอภิสิทธิ์แห่งวันตอบแทน
#เฉพาะพระองค์เท่านั้นที่พวกข้าพระองค์เคารพอิบาดะฮฺ และเฉพาะพระองค์เท่านั้นที่พวกข้าพระองค์ขอความช่วยเหลือ
#ขอพระองค์ทรงแนะนำพวกข้าพระองค์ซึ่งทางอันเที่ยงตรง
#(คือ) ทางของบรรดาผู้ที่พระองค์ได้ทรงโปรดปราณแก่พวกเขา มิใช่ในทางของพวกที่ถูกกริ้ว และมิใช่ทางของพวกที่หลงผิด
{{col-2}}

#Dûai prá naam kɔ̌ɔng Allah há pûut rong grù nâap raa nii pûut rong mêet dtaa sěe mɔɔ
#Gaan sǎn sěe rin táng lǎai nán bpen sìt tík ong Allah há pûu bpen prá jâo hɛ̀ng sàak lá lôok
#Pûut rong grù nâap raa nii pûut rong mêet dtaa sěe mɔɔ
#Pûu tɔɔn ngɔɔ pí sìt hɛ̀ng wan dtɔ̀ɔp tɛɛn
#Chà pɔ̀ prá ong tâo nán tîip wók kâap rá ong kao róp ì baa dà há lɛ́ chà pɔ̀ prá ong tâo nán tîip wók kâap rá ong kɔ̀ɔk waam chûai lʉ̌a
#Kɔ̀ɔp rá ong tɔɔn ngá nɛ́ nam pûak kâap rá ong sʉ̂ng taang an tîang dtrong
#(Kʉʉ) taang kɔ̌ɔng ban daa pûu tîip rá ong dâi tɔɔn ngá bpròot bpraan gɛ̀ɛp wók kǎo mí châi nai taang kɔ̌ɔng pûak tîi tùuk grîu lɛ́ mí châi taang kɔ̌ɔng pûak tîi lǒng pìt
{{col end}}

==漢藏語系==
===緬甸語===
# မျပတ္မစဲသနားၾကင္နာ ၫွာတာေတာ္မူထေသာ အနႏၲက႐ုဏာေတာ္ရွင္ ျဖစ္ေတာ္မူ​ေသာ အလႅာဟ္ အရွင္ျမတ္၏နာမံေတာ္ျဖင့္(အစျပဳပါ၏)။
# ခ်ီးမြမ္းေထာမနာျခင္း ဟူဟူသမွ်သည္ စၾကာ၀ဠာ အေပါင္းတို႔ကို (မျဖစ္ေပၚမီကစ၍ ျပည့္စံုၿပီးစီးသည့္တိုင္ေအာင္ အဆင့္ဆင့္) ျပဳစု ပ်ိဳးေထာင္ေတာ္မူေသာ အလႅာဟ္အရွင္ျမတ္ အဖို႔သာတည္း။
# (အလႅာဟ္အရွင္ျမတ္သည္) မျပတ္မစဲ သနားၾကင္နာညႇာတာေတာ္မူေသာ၊ အနႏၲက႐ုဏာေတာ္ရွင္ ျဖစ္ေတာ္မူ၏။
# (အလႅာဟ္အရွင္ျမတ္သည္ ခပ္သိမ္းကုန္ ေသာသတၱ၀ါတို႔ကို ရွင္ျပန္ထေစေတာ္မူ၍ သူေတာ္စင္တို႔အား)ေကာင္းက်ိဳး၊ (မသူေတာ္တို႔အား)မေကာင္းက်ိဳး ေပးေတာ္မူ မည္ျဖစ္ေသာေန႔ ကိုအစိုးရေတာ္မူေသာအရွင္ျဖစ္သည္။
# ကြၽန္ေတာ္မ်ိဳးတို႔သည္ အရွင္ျမတ္ကိုသာလွ်င္ခယ႐ိုက်ိဳး ရွိခိုးဆည္းကပ္ၾကပါ၏။ ထို႔ျပင္တ၀ ကြၽန္ေတာ္မ်ိဳးတို႔အား ကူညီေစာင္မေတာ္ မူပါရန္အရွင္ျမတ္ အထံေတာ္၌သာလွ်င္ ဆုေတာင္းပတၳနာျပဳပါ၏။ 
# (အို-အလႅာဟ္အရွင္ျမတ္)ကြၽန္ေတာ္မ်ိဳးတို႔အားအစစ အရာရာတြင္ ေျဖာင့္မတ္မွန္ကန္ေသာလမ္းစဥ္မ်ားကိုၫႊန္ၾကားျပသေတာ္မူပါ။
# အၾကင္သူတို႔အေပၚ၀ယ္ အလႅာဟ္အရွင္ျမတ္သည္(ေမတၱာက႐ုဏာသက္၀င္ေတာ္မူ၍) သုခခ်မ္းသာ ဂုဏ္ေက်းဇူးကို ျပဳခဲ့ေလၿပီျဖစ္၏။ ထိုသူမြန္သူျမတ္တို႔၏ တရားလမ္းကို (ကြၽန္ေတာ္မ်ိဳးတို႔အားလည္း ညႊန္ၾကားျပသေတာ္မူပါ။)(ထိုသူမြန္သူျမတ္တ္ို႔သည္)အမ်က္ေတာ္စူးရွျခင္းခံရသူမ်ားလည္းမဟုတ္၊ လမ္းမွားသူမ်ားလည္း မဟုတ္။

===[[曼尼普尔语|曼尼普尔语]]===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# হৌজরি অল্লাহগী মিংলেন্দা, পুম্নমক্তা থৌজালহৈবনি, অখন্ননা নুংশিহৈবনি।
# মখল খুদিংমক্কী থাগৎচবা অমদি শীঙথাজবা পুম্বা অল্লাহদনি, তাইবং পুম্ববু শেম্বী-য়োকপীরিবা মপুনি
# পুম্নমক্তা থৌজালহৈবনি, অখন্ননা নুংশিহৈবনি
# মালিকনি অচুম-অরানগী ৱায়েল নুমিৎকী,
# নহাক্তগী ঐখোয়না ইবাদৎ (থৌগল) তৌজরি, অমসুং নহাকঙোন্দগীতা ঐখোয়না মতেং নিজরি।
# লমজিংবীয়ু ঐখোয়বু অচুম্বা লম্বীদা,
# নহাক্না মনা-মথুম খুদোল তম্বীখ্ৰবা খোঙলোয়শিংদুনা চৎখিবা লম্বী অদুদা; নত্তবা মখোয়দা শাওখ্ৰবশিংদুগী (লম্বী) অমসুং লম্মাঙনখ্রবশিংদুগী (লম্বী অদুসু) নত্তবা।
{{col-2}}
# Haujari Allāhagī minlēndā, pumnamaktā thaujālahaibani, akhannanā nunśihaibani.
# Makhala khudimmakkī thāgaṯcabā amadi śīṅathājabā pumbā Allāhadani, tā'ibaṁ pumbabu śēmbī-ẏōkapīribā mapuni,
# Pumnamaktā thaujālahaibani, akhannanā nunśihaibani,
# Mālikani acuma-arānagī raāẏēla numiṯkī.
# Nahāktagī aikhōẏanā ibādaṯ (thaugala) taujari, amasuṁ nahākaṅōndagītā aikhōẏanā matēṁ nijari;
# Lamajimbīẏu aikhōẏabu acumbā lambīdā,
# Nahāknā manā-mathuma khudōla tambīkhrabā khōṅalōẏaśindunā caṯkhibā lambī adudā; nattabā makhōẏadā śā'ōkhrabaśindugī (lambī) amasuṁ lam'māṅanakhrabaśindugī (lambī adusu) nattabā.
{{col end}}

===藏語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# ཨལ་ལྷ་གི་མཚན་ནས་དབུ་བཙུག་གི་ཡོད་ གྷོ་རྟཱ་ཁོ་རང་ཐུགས་རྗེ་ཆེན་པོ་དང་སྙིང་རྗེ་གནང་མཁན་འདི་རེད།
# བསྡོད་བསྔགས་སྣེ་ཁ་ཡོད་པ་ཚང་མ་འོས་པ་འདི་གྷོ་རྟཱ་ཁོ་རང་རེད། ཁོ་རང་འཇམ་གྱིུང་ཡོད་ཚད་ཚང་མ་གསོ་སྐྱོང་གནང་མཁན་འདི་རེད།
# ཧ་ཅང་ཐུགས་རྗེ་ཆེན་པོ་དང་སྙིང་རྗེ་གནང་མཁན་རེད།
# “གའེ་མ་ཏེ་”སྐྱེན་ཚབ་གནང་ཡག་གི་ཉི་ཽ་འདིའི་བདག་པོ་རེད།
# ཨེ་ཨལ་ལྷ། ང་ཚོས་ཁྱེད་རང་རང་ལ་དད་སྒུར་ཞུ་གི་ཡོད་ཡང་ཁྱེད་ཉིད་ནས་རོགས་རམ་སྐྱབས་འཏྭག་ཞུ་གི་ཡོད།
# ང་ཚོར་ལམ་ཁ་ཁར་ཐུག་དེའི་སྟེང་གཏང་རོགས་གནང་།
# དགོངས་འགལ་གྱུང་བའི་མི་དེ་ཚོའི་ལམ་གྱི་གང་ལ་མ་གཏང་རོགས་གནང་ཡང་ལམ་བསྱག་པའི་མི་དེ་ཚོའི་ལམ་དུ་མ་གཏང་རོགས་གནང་། གསོལ་རས་གནང་བའི་མི་དེ་ཚོའི་ལམ་གྱི་གང་ལ་བསྐྱལ་རོགས་གནང་།
{{col-2}}
# Alla gi tsen né utsuk giyö ghota khorang tukjé chenpo dang nyingjé nang khen di ré.
# Dö ngak né kha yöpa tsangma öpa di ghota khorang ré khorang jam gying yö tsé tsangma so kyong nang khen di ré,
# Hachang tukjé chenpo dang nyingjé nang khen ré,
# "Qéamaté" kyen tsab nang yak gi nyi di dakpo ré.
# É Alla, ngatsö khyerang rang la dé gur shyu giyö yang khyé nyi né rok ram kyab atak shyu giyö;
# Ngatsor lamkha khar tuk dé teng tang rok nang,
# Gong gal gyungwé mi detsö lam gyi gangla ma tang rok nang yang lam basyakpé mi detsö lam duma tang rok nang, sol ré nangwé mi detsö lam gyi gangla kyal rok nang.
{{col end}}

===現代標準漢語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
'''馬堅譯本－繁體字'''
#奉至仁至慈的真主之名
#一切贊頌，全歸真主，全世界的主，
#至仁至慈的主，
#報應日的主。
#我怚崇拜你，只求你祐助，
#求你引導我怳正路，
#你所祐助者的路，不是受譴怒者的路，也不是迷誤者的路。
{{col-2}}
'''马坚译本－简体字'''
#奉至仁至慈的真主之名
#一切赞颂，全归真主，全世界的主，
#至仁至慈的主，
#报应日的主。
#我怚崇拜你，只求你祐助，
#求你引导我怳正路，
#你所祐助者的路，不是受谴怒者的路，也不是迷误者的路。
{{col end}}

{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
'''王靜齋譯本－繁體字'''
# 奉普慈特慈安拉之名
# 讚頌安拉；眾世界的養主。
# 普慈特慈的。
# 執掌還報日的。
# 我們惟獨拜你，惟獨求你相助。
# 求你引領我們正道；
# 就是那一切人的道你曾對他們施恩，不是被怒的，也不是迷誤的。
{{col-2}}
'''王静斋译本－简体字'''
# 奉普慈特慈安拉之名
# 赞颂安拉；众世界的养主。
# 普慈特慈的。
# 执掌还报日的。
# 我们惟独拜你，惟独求你相助。
# 求你引领我们正道；
# 就是那一切人的道你曾对他们施恩，不是被怒的，也不是迷误的。
{{col end}}

{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
'''仝道章譯本－繁體字'''
# 奉大仁大慈的安拉尊名
# 一切讚頌都屬於安拉——全世界的主
# 大仁的、大慈的，
# 審判日的主。
# 我們只崇拜你，只求你襄助。
# 求你指引我們正道。
# 那就是曾經蒙你賜福的人的道，而不是那些使你惱怒的人
{{col-2}}
'''仝道章译本－简体字'''
# 奉大仁大慈的安拉尊名
# 一切赞颂都属于安拉——全世界的主
# 大仁的、大慈的，
# 审判日的主。
# 我们只崇拜你，只求你襄助。
# 求你指引我们正道。
# 那就是曾经蒙你赐福的人的道，而不是那些使你恼怒的人
{{col end}}

{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
'''馬金鵬譯本－繁體字'''
# 萬贊歸安拉——調養萬世的，
# 普慈特慈的，
# 掌管還報日的主。
# 我們只崇拜你，我們只求你援助。
# 引導我們正道吧！
# 那些人們的道路——你施恩給他們，
# 而非受惱怒者和非迷失者們的道路。
{{col-2}}
'''马金鹏译本－简体字'''
# 万赞归安拉——调养万世的，
# 普慈特慈的，
# 掌管还报日的主。
# 我们只崇拜你，我们只求你援助。
# 引导我们正道吧！
# 那些人们的道路——你施恩给他们，
# 而非受恼怒者和非迷失者们的道路。
{{col end}}

{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
'''馬仲剛譯本－繁體字'''
# 奉普慈特慈的安拉之名
# 一切讚頌，全歸安拉——眾世界的主，
# 普慈的主，特慈的主，
# 審判日的主。
# 我們只崇拜你，我們只向你求助。
# 求你指引我們正道，
# 那是蒙你施恩者的道，不是受譴怒者和迷誤者的道。
{{col-2}}
'''马仲刚译本－简体字'''
# 奉普慈特慈的安拉之名
# 一切赞颂，全归安拉——众世界的主，
# 普慈的主，特慈的主，
# 审判日的主。
# 我们只崇拜你，我们只向你求助。
# 求你指引我们正道，
# 那是蒙你施恩者的道，不是受谴怒者和迷误者的道。
{{col end}}

==日語==
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
#慈悲あまねく慈愛深きアッラーの御名において。
#万有の主、アッラーにこそ凡ての称讃あれ、
#慈悲あまねく慈愛深き御方、
#最後の審きの日の主宰者に。
#わたしたちはあなたにのみ崇め仕え、あなたにのみ御助けを請い願う。
#わたしたちを正しい道に導きたまえ、
#あなたが御恵みを下された人々の道に、あなたの怒りを受けし者、また踏み迷える人々の道ではなく。
{{col-2}}
#Jihi amaneku jiai fukaki Allaa no mina ni oite.
#Ban'yū no shu, Allaa ni koso subete no shōsan are.
#Jihi amaneku jiai fukaki onkata.
#Saigo no sabaki no hi no shusaisha ni.
#Watashitachi wa anata ni nomi agametsukae, anata ni nomi otasuke o koinegau.
#Watashitachi o tadashii michi ni michibiki tamae,
#Anata ga omegumi o kudasareta hitobito no michi ni, anata no ikari o ukeshi mono, mata fumimayoeru hitobito no michi dewa naku.
{{col-end}}

==朝鮮語==
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}

#자비로우시고 자애로우신 하나님의 이름으로
#온 우주의 주님이신 하나님께 찬미를 드리나이다
#그 분은 자애로우시고 자비로우시며
#심판의 날을 주관하시도다
#우리는 당신만을 경배하오며 당신에게만 구원을 비노니
#저희들을 올바른 길로 인도하여 주시옵소서
#그 길은 당신께서 축복을 내리신 길이며 노여움을 받은 자나 방황하는 자들이 걷지 않는 가장 올바른 길이옵니다
{{col-2}}

#Jabirousigo jaaerousin Hananimui ireumeuro
#On ujuui junimisin Hananimkke chanmireul deurinaida
#Geu buneun jaaerousigo jabirousimyeo
#Simpanui nareul jugwanhasidoda
#Urineun dangsinmaneul gyeongbaehaomyeo dangsinegeman guwoneul binoni
#Jeohuideureul olbareun gillo indohayeo jusiopsoseo
#Geu gireun dangsinkkeseo chukbogeul naerisin girimyeo noyeoumeul badeun jana banghwanghaneun jadeuri geotji anneun gajang olbareun giriomnida
{{col-end}}

==突厥語系==
===阿塞拜疆語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
'''阿塞拜疆'''
# Mərhəmətli, rəhmli Allahın adı ilə!
# Həmd olsun Allaha – aləmlərin Rəbbinə,
# mərhəmətli, rəhmli olana,
# Haqq-Hesab gününün sahibinə!
# Biz yalnız Sənə ibadət edirik və yalnız Səndən kömək diləyirik!
# Bizi doğru yola yönəlt!
# Ne’mət verdiyin kəslərin yoluna! Qəzəbə düçar olmuşların və azmışların yox!
{{col-2}}
'''伊朗'''
# رحمان و رحیم اولان آللاهين آدييلا
# حمد، عالملرين رببي آللاها اؤزگودور
# او، رحماندير، رحیمدير
# دين (قارشيليق) گو و تک سندن کؤمک ديله يه ريک
# بيزي دوغرو يولا هيدايت ائت
# اؤزلرينه نعمت وئرديگين، غضبه اوغراماميش و ده ساپماميش کسلرين يولونا
{{col end}}

===土耳其語===
#Rahmân ve rahîm olan Allah'ın adıyla.  
#Hamd övme ve övülme, âlemlerin Rabbi Allah'a mahsustur.  
#O, rahmândır ve rahîmdir.  
#Ceza gününün mâlikidir.  
#Ancak sana kulluk ederiz ve yalnız senden medet umarız.  
#Bize doğru yolu göster.  
#Kendilerine lütuf ve ikramda bulunduğun kimselerin yolunu; gazaba uğramışların ve sapmışların yolunu değil!

===土庫曼語===
# Rahman we Rahym bolan, Allahyň ady bilen.
# Hamdy-senalar, älemlerin Robbi Allaha mahsusdyr,
# Rahmandyr, Rahymdyr,
# Din (kyýamat) gününiň eýesidir.
# Biz diňe Saňa ybadat edýäris we diňe Senden kömek dileýäris;
# Bizi dogry ýola gönükdir,
# Bizi gazawa sezewar bolanlaryň we azaşanlaryň ýoluna däl-de, nygmat bagyş edenleriň ýoluna gönükdir.

===維吾爾語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# ناھايىتى شەپقەتلىك ۋە مېھرىبان اﷲ نىڭ ئىسمى بىلەن باشلايمەن
# جىمى ھەمدۇسانا ئالەملەرنىڭ پەرۋەردىگارى اﷲ قا خاستۇر
# اﷲ ناھايىتى شەپقەتلىك ۋە مېھرىباندۇر
# قىيامەت كۈنىنىڭ ئىگىسىدۇر
# (رەببىمىز) ساڭىلا ئىبادەت قىلىمىز ۋە سەندىنلا ياردەم تىلەيمىز
# بىزنى توغرا يولغا باشلىغىن
# غەزىپىڭگە يولۇققانلارنىڭ ۋە ئازغانلارنىڭ يولىغا ئەمەس، سەن ئىنئام قىلغانلارنىڭ يولىغا (باشلىغىن)
{{col-2}}
# Nahayiti shepqetlik ve mëhriban Allahning ismi bilen bashlaymen 
# Jimi hemdusana alemlerning perverdigari Allahqa xastur 
# Allah nahayiti shepqetlik ve mëhribandur 
# Qiyamet künining igisidur 
# (Rebbimiz) sangila ibadet qilimiz ve sendinla yardem tileymiz 
# Bizni toghra yolgha bashlighin 
# Ghezipingge yoluqqanlarning ve azghanlarning yoligha emes, sen in'am qilghanlarning yoligha (bashlighin)
{{col end}}

===烏茲別克語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Меҳрибон ва раҳмли Аллоҳнинг номи билан бошлайман.  
# Барча мақтов, шукрлар оламларнинг тарбиячиси Аллоҳга бўлсин. 
# У Роҳман ва Раҳийм. 
# У қиёмат кунининг подшоҳи, эгаси. 
# Фақат сенгагина ибодат қиламиз ва фақат сендангина ёрдам сўраймиз. 
# Бизни тўғри йўлга бошлагин. 
# Ўзинг неъмат берганларнинг йўлига (бошлагин), ғазабга дучор бўлганларнинг йўлига эмас, адашганларникига ҳам эмас.
{{col-2}}
# Mehribon va rahmli Allohning nomi bilan boshlayman.  
# Barcha maqtov, shukrlar olamlarning tarbiyachisi Allohga bo‘lsin. 
# U Rohman va Rahiym. 
# U qiyomat kunining podshohi, egasi. 
# Faqat sengagina ibodat qilamiz va faqat sendangina yordam so‘raymiz. 
# Bizni to‘g‘ri yo‘lga boshlagin. 
# O‘zing ne’mat berganlarning yo‘liga (boshlagin), g‘azabga duchor bo‘lganlarning yo‘liga emas, adashganlarnikiga ham emas.
{{col end}}

===韃靼語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
#Рәхимле шәфкатьле Аллаһ исеме белән башлыйм эшемне.
#Чын мактау галәмнәрне, бөтен мәхлукларны тәрбияләүче Аллаһу тәгаләгә тиешле.
#Аллаһу тәгалә бу дөньяда барча кешеләргә мәрхәмәтле, ягъни мөэминнәргә дә, көферләргә дә нигъмәтләрен бирә, әмма ахирәттә мөэмин бәндәләренә генә бирәчәк.
#Аллаһу тәгалә, гаделлек белән хөкем итүче, ахирәт көненең патшасыдыр.
#Ий тәрбиячебез Аллаһ! Без сиңа гына гыйбадәт кылабыз һәм һәр эшебездә синнән генә ярдәм сорыйбыз.
#Ий тәрбиячебез Аллаһ! Безләрне туры юлга күндер!
#Ул юлны Син әүвәлгеләргә ингам итеп бирдең, безләрне Синең ачуың төшкән вә адашкан кешеләрне бидеґәтъ һәм заләләт юлыннан башка юлга күндер, ягъни Сине ачуландырмаган һәм хак юлдан адашмаган кешеләр юлына күндер!
{{col-2}}
#Räximle şäfqat’le Allah iseme belän başlıym eşemne.
#Çın maqtaw ğalämnärne, böten mäxluqlarnı tärbiäläwçe Allahu täğalägä tiyeşle.
#Allahu täğalä bu dön’yada barça keşelärgä märxämätle, yağni möeminnärgä dä, köferlärgä dä niğmätlären birä, ämma axirättä möemin bändälärenä genä biräçäk.
#Allahu täğalä, ğadellek belän xökem itüçe, axirät köneneñ patşasıdır.
#İy tärbiäçebez Allah! Bez siña ğına ğıybadät qılabız häm här eşebezdä sinnän genä yardäm sorıybız.
#İy tärbiäçebez Allah! Bezlärne turı yulğa künder!
#Ul yulnı Sin äwvälgelärgä inğam itep birdeñ, bezlärne Sineñ açwıñ töşkän vä adaşqan keşelärne bideґät häm zalälät yulınnan başqa yulğa künder, yağni Sine açulandırmağan häm xaq yuldan adaşmağan keşelär yulına künder!
{{col end}}

===卡拉恰伊－巴尔卡尔語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Рахматлы, джумушакъ Аллахны аты бла!
# Махтаула бары да дунияланы Иеси -
# Рахматлы, Джумушакъ Аллаххады,
# (Тюзлюк бла) сюд боллукъ кюнню патчахына!
# Биз къуру Сеннге къуллукъ этебиз болушлукъ да къуру Сенден излейбиз (къуру Сеннге таянабыз)!
# (Энди) Сен бизни тюз джолгъа бир тюзет,
# Ол Сен насыб этгенлени джолуна, чамланылгъанладан да, аджашханладан да тышында болгъан!
{{col-2}}
# Rahmatlı, džumušak” Allahnı atı bla!
# Mahtaula barı da duniâlanı Iesi -
# Rahmatlı, Džumušak” Allahhadı,
# (Tûzlûk bla) sûd bolluk” kûnnû patčahına!
# Biz k”uru Sennge k”ulluk” ètebiz bolušluk” da k”uru Senden izlejbiz (k”uru Senñe taânabız)!
# (Èndi) Sen bizni tûz džolg”a bir tûzet,
# Ol Sen nasıb ètgenleni džoluna, čamlanılg”anladan da, adžašhanladan da tıšında bolg”an!
{{col end}}

===巴什基尔語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Мәрхәмәтле һәм рәхимле Аллаһ исеме менән (башлайым).
# Ғәләмдәр Раббыһы Аллаһҡа маҡтауҙар (булһын)!
# (Ул) мәрхәмәтле, рәхимле.
# Яуап көнөнөң хужаһы. 
# Һиңә генә ғибәҙәт ҡылабыҙ һәм Һинән генә ярҙам һорайбыҙ.
# Беҙҙе тура юлға — рәхмәтеңә-ниғмәттәреңә ирешкәндәр юлына күндер.
# (Зинһар) юлдан яҙғандар һәм нәфрәтеңә дусар булғандар юлына төшөрмә.
{{col-2}}
# Mәrxәmәtle hәm rәximle Allah iseme menәn (başlayım).
# Ğәlәmdәr Rabbıhı Allahqa maqtawźar (bulhın)!
# (Ul) mәrxәmәtle, rәximle.
# Yawap kөnөnөᶇ xujahı. 
# Hiᶇә genә ğibәźәt qılabıź hәm Hinәn genә yarźam horaybıź.
# Beźźe tura yulğa — rәxmәteᶇә-niğmәttәreᶇә ireşkәndәr yulına künder.
# (Zinhar) yuldan yaźğandar hәm nәfrәteᶇә dusar bulğandar yulına tөşөrmә.
{{col end}}

===哈薩克語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Аса қамқор, ерекше мейірімді, Алланың атымен бастаймын
# Барлық мақтау бүкіл әлемнің Раббы Аллаға тән
# Аса қамқор, ерекше мейірімді
# Қиямет күнінің иесі
# Саған ғана құлшылық қыламыз, әрі Сенен ғана жәрдем тілейміз
# Бізді тура жолға сала көр
# Ашуға ұшырағандардың және адасқандардың жолына емес
{{col-2}}
# اسا قامقور، ەرەكشە مەيىرىمدى، اللانىڭ اتىمەن باستايمىن
# بارلىق ماقتاۋ بۇكىل الەمنىڭ راببى اللاعا ٴتان
# اسا قامقور، ەرەكشە مەيىرىمدى
# قيامەت كۇنىنىڭ يەسى
# ساعان عانا قۇلسىلىق قىلامىز، ٵرى سەنەن عانا جاردەم تىلەيمىز
# ٴبىزدى تيرا جولعا سالا كور
# اشۋعا ۇشراعانداردىڭ جانە اداسقانداردىڭ جولىنا ەمەس
{{col end}}

===柯尔克孜語===
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Ырайымдуу, Мээримдүү Аллаhтын (баштаймын)
# Ааламдардын Раббиси - Аллаhка алкыш-мактоо болсун
# Ал - Ырайымдуу, Мэримлүү
# Кыямат Күндүн падышасьы
# Жалгыз Сага гана сыйынабыз жана Сенден гана жардам сурайбыз
# Бизди Туура Жолго баштагын
# Өзүн жакшылык бергeн Өзүң адамдардын жолуна (баштагын). Каарына учурагандардын жана адашкандардын жолуна эмeс
{{col-2}}
# Irayımduu, Meerimdüü Allahtın (baştaymın)
# Aalamdardın Rabbisi - Allahka alkış-maktoo bolsun
# Al - Irayımduu, Merimlüü
# Kıyamat Kündün padışası
# Jalgız Saga gana sıyınabız jana Senden gana jardam suraybız
# Bizdi Tuura Jolgo baştagın
# Özün jakşılık bergen Özüŋ adamdardın joluna (baştagın). Kaarına uçuragandardın jana adaşkandardın joluna emes
{{col end}}

==蒙古語==
{{col begin}}
{{col-2}}
# Бурхан, хамгийн нигүүлсэнгүй, ихэнх Өршөөнгүй нэрээр .
# Магтаал Бурхан, Ертөнцийн Эзэнд байх болтугай.
# Хамгийн их нигүүлсэнгүй, хамгийн нигүүлсэнгүй.
# Шүүлтийн өдрийг мастер.
# Чи ганцаараа бидний бишрэн шүтэж, мөн та ганцаараа бид тусламж гуйх
# Биднийг шулуун замаар гарын авлага,
# Та нар биш, харин уур хилэн хүртэх хүмүүс адислагдсан билээ хүмүүсээ зам, холдох хүмүүсийн ч.
{{col-2}}
# Burhan, khamgiin nigüülsengüi, ikhenkh Örshööngüi nereer .
# Magtaal Burhan, Yertöntsiin Ezend baikh boltugai.
# Khamgiin ikh nigüülsengüi, khamgiin nigüülsengüi.
# Shüültiin ödriig mastyer.
# Chi gantsaaraa bidnii bishren shütej, mön ta gantsaaraa bid tuslamj guikh
# Bidniig shuluun zamaar garyn avlaga,
# Ta nar bish, kharin uur khilen khürtekh khümüüs adislagdsan bilee khümüüsee zam, kholdokh khümüüsiin ch.
{{col end}}

== 注释 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部連結 ==

== 參見 ==
{{Portal box|伊斯兰教}}
* 《[[古兰经|古兰经]]》
** [[蘇拉|蘇拉]]
*** [[開端章|開端章]]
* 各種語言的《[[主禱文|主禱文]]》

{{-}}
{{Sura}}

[[Category:蘇拉|Category:蘇拉]]
[[Category:伊斯蘭教禮儀|Category:伊斯蘭教禮儀]]
[[Category:伊斯兰教相关列表|Category:伊斯兰教相关列表]]