{{noteTA
|G1=Carnivorous Plant
}}
{{Speciesbox
| image = Pitcher tendril.jpg
| image_caption = 红瓶猪笼草的栽培植株
| genus = Nepenthes
| species = × ventrata
| authority = Hort. ''ex'' [[罗恩·弗莱明|Fleming]] (1979) ''[[裸名|nom.nud.]]''
}}

'''红瓶猪笼草'''（[[学名|学名]]：''{{lang|la|Nepenthes × ventrata}}''）是[[翼状猪笼草|翼状猪笼草]]{{small|（''N. alata''）}}和[[葫芦猪笼草|葫芦猪笼草]]{{small|（''N. ventricosa''）}}的[[自然杂交种|自然杂交种]]。其与[[亲本|亲本]]一样，也为[[菲律宾|菲律宾]]的[[特有种|特有种]]。其名称最初发表于1979年的《[[食虫植物通讯|食虫植物通讯]]》中。<ref>Fleming, R. 1979. {{PDFlink|[http://carnivorousplants.org/cpn/articles/CPNv08n1p10_12.pdf Hybrid ''Nepenthes''.]|626 [[Kibibyte|KiB]]<!-- application/pdf, 641111 bytes -->}} ''[[食虫植物通讯|Carnivorous Plant Newsletter]]'' '''8'''(1): 10–12.</ref>

红瓶猪笼草是猪笼草[[组织培养|组织培养]]最为常见的品种，常见于花市内。<ref>Catalano, M. 2009. ''Nepenthes''. In: ''Growing Carnivores — an Italian perspective''. Prague. pp. 50–57.</ref>

[[栽培品种|栽培品种]][[李安·玛丽猪笼草|李安·玛丽猪笼草]]{{small|（''N.'' 'LeeAnn Marie'）}}仍被认为是红瓶猪笼草的同物异名。但该栽培品种名称并不是正式的。<ref>Schlauer, J. N.d. [http://www.carnivorousplants.org/cpdb/CPdbDetail.php?cp_id=118907 ''Nepenthes'' 'LeeAnn Marie'] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20100925010605/http://carnivorousplants.org/cpdb/CPdbDetail.php?cp_id=118907 |date=2010-09-25 }}. Carnivorous Plant Database.</ref>

== 参考文献 ==
{{reflist|2}}
{{refbegin|2}}
* Gaume, L., P. Perret, E. Gorb, S. Gorb, J.-J. Labat & N. Rowe 2004. How do plant waxes cause flies to slide? Experimental tests of wax-based trapping mechanisms in three pitfall carnivorous plants. ''Arthropod Structure and Development'' '''33'''(1): 103–111. {{DOI|10.1016/j.asd.2003.11.005}}
* Gorb, E., V. Kastner, A. Peressadko, E. Arzt, L. Gaume, N. Rowe & S. Gorb 2004. {{PDFlink|[http://jeb.biologists.org/cgi/reprint/207/17/2947.pdf Structure and properties of the glandular surface in the digestive zone of the pitcher in the carnivorous plant ''Nepenthes ventrata'' and its role in insect trapping and retention.]}} ''The Journal of Experimental Biology'' '''207''': 2947–2963. {{DOI|10.1242/jeb.01128}}
* McPherson, S.R. & V.B. Amoroso 2011. ''[[菲律宾的猪笼草野外指南|Field Guide to the Pitcher Plants of the Philippines]]''. Redfern Natural History Productions, Poole.
* {{id icon}} Saputro, R.A., S.W. Ardie & Krisantini 2013. [http://journal.ipb.ac.id/index.php/bulagron/article/viewFile/6274/4820 Aplikasi berbagai komposisi dan konsentrasi pupuk majemuk untuk pembentukan kantong pada ''Nepenthes x ventrata'']. [The effect of fertilizer application on growth and pitcher formation of ''Nepenthes x ventrata''.] ''Buletin Agrohorti'' '''1'''(1): 113–118. [https://web.archive.org/web/20131219034748/http://agrohort.ipb.ac.id/journal/index.php/agh/article/view/59 Abstract] <!--http://www.webcitation.org/6JAJQPANC-->
{{refend}}

== 扩展阅读 ==
{{refbegin|2}}
* 食虫植物数据库中[http://www.omnisterra.com/bot/cp_home.cgi?name=ventrata 红瓶猪笼草的信息]
* 食虫植物照片搜寻引擎中[http://cpphotofinder.com/nepenthes-x-ventrata-1902.html 红瓶猪笼草的照片]
{{commons-inline|Nepenthes × ventrata|红瓶猪笼草}}
{{wikispecies-inline|Nepenthes × ventrata|红瓶猪笼草}}
{{refend}}

{{Nepenthes}}

[[Category:亚洲食虫植物|Nepenthes × ventrata]]
[[Category:猪笼草属自然杂交种|ventrata]]
[[Category:菲律宾植物|Category:菲律宾植物]]