<includeonly><!-- 在這裡加入模板的保護標識 --></includeonly><noinclude>{{template doc page viewed directly}}</noinclude>
<!-- 在本行下編輯模板說明 -->

=== 說明 ===
# Go to [http://www.animenewsnetwork.com/encyclopedia animenewsnetwork.com/encyclopedia] and search for the title/person/company you want.
# Click on the correct link to go to the ANN's page on it. Be sure you're clicking on the correct page.
# The page [[URL]] should look like <nowiki>http://www.animenewsnetwork.com/encyclopedia/anime.php?id=####</nowiki>, where "####" indicates a number.
# Add to the external links section of the associtated Wikipedia article the text: <code><nowiki>* {{ann|</nowiki>''type''<nowiki>|####}}</nowiki></code> where ''type'' is the type of ANN page it is (manga, anime, company, etc) and "####" is the number you've copied.

=== 使用方式 ===
Use either:
<code><nowiki>* {{ann|</nowiki>''type''<nowiki>|####|</nowiki>''title''<nowiki>|noparen}}</nowiki></code><br/>
<code><nowiki>* {{ann|type=</nowiki>''type''<nowiki>|id=####|title=</nowiki>''title''<nowiki>|noparen=true}}</nowiki></code><br/>
Do ''not'' mix "field=''value''" and "''value''" formats for the parameters as it can cause some of the fields to be overwritten. The parameters are:
:* ''type'' - can be manga, manhwa, manhua, anime, ova, movie, people, or company. Some alternates are supported such as "name" in place of "people".
:* ''id'' - the number following <code>?id=</code> part of the ANN url.
:* ''title'' - the desired linktext if different from the Wikipedia article's title. The default is the Wikipedia article's title if left blank.
:* ''noparen'' - prevents the parentheses showing the type from appearing. Any value will work, though using a values that make sense like "noparen" or "noparen=true" are suggested. Note that this doesn't affect the types "people" or "company" as neither use the parentheses anyway.

=== 範例 ===
Let's look at some Naruto related examples as Naruto uses almost everything we have.

{| class="wikitable"
| '''Code'''
| '''Result'''
|-
| valign="top" | <code><nowiki>{{ann|manga|1598|Naruto}}</nowiki></code>
| {{ann|manga|1598|Naruto}}
|-
| valign="top" | <code><nowiki>{{ann|anime|1825|Naruto}}</nowiki></code>
| {{ann|anime|1825|Naruto}}
|-
| valign="top" | <code><nowiki>{{ann|ova|3499|Naruto Special: Akaki Yotsuba no Clover wo Sagase}}</nowiki></code>
| {{ann|ova|3499|Naruto Special: Akaki Yotsuba no Clover wo Sagase}}
|-
| valign="top" | <code><nowiki>{{ann|movie|3381|Naruto The Movie: Ninja Clash in the Land of Snow}}</nowiki></code>
| {{ann|movie|3381|Naruto The Movie: Ninja Clash in the Land of Snow}}
|-
| valign="top" | <code><nowiki>{{ann|people|8036|Masashi Kishimoto}}</nowiki></code>
| {{ann|name|8036|Masashi Kishimoto}}
|-
| valign="top" | <code><nowiki>{{ann|company|4552|Viz Media}}</nowiki></code>
| {{ann|company|4552|Viz Media}}
|}

When using the template in the article ''[[Naruto the Movie: Ninja Clash in the Land of Snow]]'', as the title is the same as the ANN entry, you can omit the title parameter. Also, since this would be the only ANN link used in the article, you can exclude the type. Thus you could use this instead:
{| class="wikitable"
| '''Code'''
| '''Result'''
|-
| valign="top" | <code><nowiki>{{ann|movie|3381||noparen}}</nowiki></code>
| {{ann|movie|3381|Naruto The Movie: Ninja Clash in the Land of Snow|noparen}}
|}

=== 參見 ===
* {{tl|ann manga}}
* {{tl|ann anime}}
* {{tl|ann name}}
* {{tl|ann company}}
* {{tl|ann manhwa}}

<includeonly>
[[Category:外部资源模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]
[[Category:動畫模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]
[[Category:漫畫模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]
</includeonly>