{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE -->

This is a template to generate links to [[BlackBerry World]] webstore. This template should be used exclusively for '''Apps''' on the [[BlackBerry World]] store.

=== Usage ===
{{See also|Wikipedia:External links/Perennial websites}}

The first parameter for the {{tl|BlackBerry World}} template is the id number of the BlackBerry World application. This can be found in the page's [[统一资源定位符|URL]]. For example: if the URL is <kbd><nowiki>http(s)://appworld.blackberry.com/webstore/content/example/</nowiki></kbd>, then the id number is ''example''. The second parameter is the description or display name.

== Description ==
:1. Go to the BlackBerry World webstore page.
:2. Copy only the id numbers at the end of the url ignore the "/" in front of the numbers and "/?lang=en" thereafter.
:3. The page URL should look like http://appworld.blackberry.com/webstore/category/#########/, where "#########" indicates a number.
:4. Add to the external links section the text:<br/><nowiki>{{BlackBerry World|#######|Name}}</nowiki><br/>where "#########" is the number you've copied, and "Name" is the name of the BlsckBerry World application.

=== Example ===
#On the page of the [[維基百科應用程式|Wikipedia App]], preview <nowiki>{{BlackBerry World}}</nowiki> and search using the link [https://appworld.blackberry.com/webstore/content/105171/ "Wikipedia App"] produced. You'll get to this page: https://appworld.blackberry.com/webstore/content/105171/
#Copy "105171" and then add this number as parameter:
::<nowiki>{{BlackBerry World|105171}}</nowiki>
The result on the page Wikipedia App is:
::{{BlackBerry World|105171|Wikipedia App}}.

Typically this is a list item in the external links section (even if there is only one link), so you should add "*" in front.

{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- Categories and interwikis go at the bottom of this page. -->

=== See also ===
*{{tl|ITunes Preview App}}
*{{tl|Google Play}}
*{{tl|Windows Phone Store}}

<includeonly>{{Sandbox other||
<!-- CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS HERE, THANKS -->
[[Category:软件外部链接模板]]
[[Category:黑莓软件|τ{{PAGENAME}}]]
[[Category:黑莓手機|τ{{PAGENAME}}]]
}}</includeonly>