{{#if: {{{1|}}} |{{#switch: {{{1}}}

<!-- 1996 -->
|1996-Agnarsson={{Ts.|Agnarsson, I.}} (1996) Íslenskar köngulaer. Fjölrit Náttúrufraedistofnunar 31: 1-175.
|1996-Alderweireldt={{Ts.|Alderweireldt, M.}} (1996) A taxonomic revision of the genus Ocyale Audouin, 1826 in Africa (Araneae: Lycosidae). J. nat. Hist. 30: 1349-1365.
|1996-Amaya-Klawinski={{Ts.|Amaya, C. C. & P. D. Klawinski}} (1996) A method for assessing gender in immature wolf spiders (Araneae: Lycosidae). J. Arachnol. 24: 158-160.
|1996-Arnedo-Ribera={{Ts.|Arnedo, M. A. & C. Ribera}} (1996) Dysdera ratonensis Wunderlich, 1991 (Arachnida, Araneae), a troglomorphic species from La Palma, Canary Islands: description of the male and redescription of the female. Rev. arachnol. 11: 109-122.
|1996-Baehr-Jocque={{Ts.|Baehr, B. & R. Jocqué.}} (1996) A revision of Asteron, starring male palpal morphology. Rev. suisse Zool., vol. hors série 1: 15-28.
|1996-Bauer={{Ts.|Bauer, S.}} (1996) Eine verkannte Vogelspinne aus Nord-Peru Avicularia aurantiaca spec. n. (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Aviculariinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(8): 1-8.
<!--
Beladjal, L., R. Bosmans & J.-P. Maelfait. Le genre Rhode Simon dans le Maghreb (Araneae, Dysderidae). Rev. arachnol. 11: 65-75.
Bennett, R. G. & L. J. Brumwell. Zora hespera in British Columbia: a new spider family record for Canada (Araneae: Zoridae). J. ent. Soc. Br. Columbia 93: 105-109.
Berry, J. W., J. A. Beatty & J. Prószyński. Salticidae of the Pacific Islands. I. Distributions of twelve genera, with descriptions of eighteen new species. J. Arachnol. 24: 214-253.
Biswas, V. & D. Raychaudhuri. (1996a). Clubionid spiders of Bangladesh - I: Genus Clubiona Latreille. Proc. recent Adv. Life Sci. (1994), Dibrugarh Univ. 1: 191-210.
Biswas, V. & D. Raychaudhuri. (1996b). Tetragnathid spiders of Bangladesh (Araneae: Tetragnathidae). Ann. Entomol. (Dehra Dun) 14: 45-59.
Biswas, V., B. Kundu, M. Kundu, S. Saha & D. Raychaudhuri. Spiders of the genus Oxyopes Latreille (Araneae: Oxyopidae) of Buxa Tiger Reserve, West Bengal. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 53-61.
Blick, T. & C. Szinetár. Glyphesis conicus ist ein jüngeres Synonym von Glyphesis taoplesius (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 11: 39-42.
Bonaldo, A. B. On the identity of the type species Corinna rubripes C. L. Koch with remarks on the taxonomy of the genus (Araneae, Corinnidae). Rev. suisse Zool., vol. hors série 1: 79-86.
Bosmans, R. The genera Araeoncus Simon, Delorripis Simon and Diplocephalus Bertkau in northern Africa (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Erigoninae): Studies on North African Linyphiidae VII. Belg. J. Zool. 2126: 123-151.
Braul, A. & A. A. Lise. Theriella, um novo gênero de Salticidae para a região Neotropical (Araneae). Biociências 4: 171-177.
Brescovit, A. D. Revisão do gênero Centroctenus Mello-Leitão (Araneae, Ctenidae, Cteninae). Revta bras. Ent. 40: 301-313.
Brescovit, A. D. & A. B. Bonaldo. Two new species of the genus Naevius Roth (Arachnida, Araneae, Desidae). Spixiana 19: 233-238.
Buckup, E. H. & M. A. L. Marques. Descrições, transferências e novas sinonímias em Theridiidae (Araneae). Iheringia (Zool.) 81: 45-62.
Buckup, E. H. & R. Pinto-da-Rocha. On the males of Wagneriana roraima Levi and W. yacuma Levi (Araneae, Araneidae). Revta bras. Zool. 13: 849-852.
Chang, Y. H. A newly recorded spider from Taiwan, Paraplectana tsushimensis Yamaguchi, 1960 (Araneae: Araneidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 13-14.
Chang, Y. H. & H. W. Chang. A new record of the spider, Araniella yaginumai Tanikawa, 1995 (Araneae: Araneidae) from Taiwan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 143-145.
-->
|1996a-Charpentier={{Ts.|Charpentier, P.}} (1996) The illustrated redescription of: Poecilotheria rufilata Pocock 1899. Exothermae Mag. 0: 14-24.
|1996b-Charpentier={{Ts.|Charpentier, P.}} (1996) The palm tree spiders of the genus Stromatopelma. Exothermae Mag. 1: 3-20.
|1996c-Charpentier={{Ts.|Charpentier, P.}} (1996) A new species of Poecilotheria from Sri Lanka: Poecilotheria pococki, sp. n. Exothermae Mag. 1: 21-33.
|1996-Chen-Song={{Ts.|Chen, J. & D. X. Song}} (1996) On five species of Lycosidae from China. Acta arachnol. sin. 5: 120-126.
<!--
Chen, W. H. & J. Z. Zhao. A new species of theridiid spider from Hubei, China (Araneae: Theridiidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 21: 35-38.
Cordes, D. A new wolf spider of the genus Alopecosa Simon from Greece (Araneae: Lycosidae). Bull Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 211-214.
-->
|1996a-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1996) Three new species of Selenops Latreille (Araneae, Selenopidae) from northern Brazil. J. Arachnol. 24: 68-71.
|1996b-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1996) Catálogo de las especies de la familia Selenopidae Simon, 1887 (Araneae). Acta zool. lilloana 43: 393-409.
|1996c-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1996) Orops Benoit sinónimo de Selenops Latreille y notas sobre Anyphops Benoit (Araneae: Selenopidae). Neotropica 42: 60.
|1996d-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1996) Tres nuevas especies de Selenops Latreille, 1819 (Araneae: Selenopidae) en América del Sur. Neotropica 42: 91-96.
|1996e-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1996) Dos nuevas especies sudamericanas de Selenops (Araneae: Selenopidae). Iheringia (Zool.) 81: 105-110.
|1996-Croeser={{Ts.|Croeser, P. M. C.}} (1996) A revision of the African huntsman spider genus Palystes L. Koch 1875 (Araneae: Heteropodidae). Ann. Natal Mus. 37: 1-122.
|1996-Davies={{Ts.|Davies, V. T.}} (1996) A new genus (Araneae: Amaurobioidea) from Australia with a rainforest species and a relict species from limestone caves. Rev. suisse Zool., vol. hors série 1: 125-133.
<!--
Decae, A. E. Systematics of the trapdoor spider genus Cyrtocarenum Ausserer, 1871 (Araneae, Ctenizidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 161-170.
Deltshev, C. & D. Dimitrov. A new Coelotes, C. brevispinus n. sp. from Bulgarian mountains (Araneae, Agelenidae). Rev. arachnol. 11: 77-79.
Di Franco, F. Gnaphosidae dei Colli Albani (Arachnida, Araneae). Fragm. ent. 28: 169-187.
Dimitrov, D. (1996a). A record of Zodarion turcicum Wunderlich from Europe with description of its unknown male (Arachnida, Araneae, Zodariidae). Ber. naturw.-medez. Ver. Innsbruck 83: 157-158.
Dimitrov, D. (1996b). Coelotes deltshevi sp.n., a new spider species from Bulgaria (Arachnida, Araneae, Agelenidae). Ber. naturw.-medez. Ver. Innsbruck 83: 159-161.
Dobyns, J. R. & J. E. Bond. A new species of Theridion from northeastern Georgia (Araneae, Theridiidae). J. Arachnol. 24: 89-92.
Efimik, V. E. & S. L. Esyunin. A new subgenus and a new species of Walckenaeria Blackwall, 1833, from the Urals with remarks on the distribution of some unicornis-group species in the Palearctic (Aranei Linyphiidae). Arthropoda Selecta 5(1/2): 63-73.
Emerit, M. Contribution à l'étude des aranéides de Madagascar et des Comores: I. La famille des Mimetidae. Rev. arachnol. 11: 95-108.
Esmerio, M. E. & A. A. Lise. Revisão taxonômica do gênero Titidius Simon, 1895 da região neotropical (Araneae, Thomisidae, Thomisinae). Biociências 3: 185-222.
Esyunin, S. L. New wolf-spider species (Lycosidae) from the Urals. Zool. Zhur. 75: 1149-1158.
Esyunin, S. L. & V. E. Efimik. (1996a). Catalogue of the Spiders (Arachnida, Aranei) of the Urals. KMK Sci. Press, Moscow, 228 pp.
Esyunin, S. L. & V. E. Efimik. (1996b). A new species of the genus Theridion (Aranei, Theridiidae) from the Urals. Zool. Zhur. 75: 1275-1277.
Fei, R. I. & J. C. Gao. One new record genus and two new record species of Erigoninae from China (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Erigoninae). J. Norman Bethune Univ. Med. Sci. 22: 247-248.
Ferrández, M. A. Notas sobre los disdéridos ibéricos VIII. Nuevas especies del género Dysdera Latreille, 1804 (Araneae, Dysderidae). Bol. R. Soc. esp. Hist. nat. (Sec. Biol.) 92: 75-83.
Fontana, R., T. Cantarella, L. Sala & P. Tongiorgi. A collection of Italian salticids (Araneae), mainly from the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines. Rev. suisse Zool., vol. hors série 1: 211-222.
Galiano, M. E. (1996a). Descripción de dos neuvas especies de Salticidae (Araneae) de la Argentina: Aphirape gamas sp. n. y Sumampattus hudsoni sp. n. Rev. Soc. entomol. Argent. 55: 153-159.
Galiano, M. E. (1996b). Descripción de tres nuevas especies de Lyssomanes de Brasil (Araneae, Salticidae). Iheringia (Zool.) 81: 23-30.
Galiano, M. E. (1996c). Formiciform Salticidae (Araneae). Two new combinations and four new species of the genera Martella and Sarinda. Misc. Zool. 19: 105-115.
Gao, J. C., R. Fei & S. Y. Xing. A new species of the genus Nasoona from China (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Erigoninae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 21: 29-31.
Gao, J. C., S. Y. Xing & C. D. Zhu. Two new species of the genera Toschia and Aprifrontalia from China (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Erigoninae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 21: 291-295.
Gardzinska, J. New species and records of Astieae (Araneae: Salticidae) from Australia and Papua New Guinea. Mem. Qd Mus. 39: 297-305.
Gasparo, F. (1996a). Note su Harpactea piligera (Araneae, Dysderidae). Fragm. ent. 28: 1-13.
Gasparo, F. (1996b). Sulla presenza del genere Stalita Schiödte (Araneae, Dysderidae) in Friuli (Italia nordorientale). Atti Memorie Commiss. Grotte "E. Boegan" 33: 47-53.
González, A. & D. del Carmen C. Neotropical spiders of the genus Argyrodes Simon (Araneae, Theridiidae). Bull. Br. arachn. Soc. 10: 127-137.
-->
|1996-Grismado={{Ts.|Grismado, C. J.}} (1996) Una nueva especie de Otiothops Mac Leay de Argentina (Araneae, Palpimanidae). Extra (Mus. argent. Cienc. nat., nueva ser.) 130: 1-2.
<!--
Hayashi, T. The spider family Clubionidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from the Krakatau Islands, Indonesia. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 63-72.
Hirst, D. B. New species of Pediana (Heteropodidae, Araneae) Simon from central and northern Australia. Rec. S. Aust. Mus. 29: 153-164.
Höfer, H. & A. D. Brescovit. On the genus Xyccarph in central Amazonia (Araneae: Oonopidae). Bull. Br. arachn. Soc. 10: 149-155.
Huber, S., R. Samm & G. Schmidt. Theraphosidae der Welt. Arachnologische Magazin, 64 pp.
Ikeda, H. (1996a). Japanese salticid spiders of the genera Euophrys C. L. Koch and Talavera Peckham et Peckham (Araneae: Salticidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 25-41.
Ikeda, H. (1996b). A new species of the genus Asemonea (Araneae: Salticidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 113-117.
Im, M. S., J. Namkung & S. T. Kim. Description of the male of Micaria japonica Hayashi, 1985 (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Acad. Jour. Konkuk Univ. 40: 297-299.
Jäger, P. (1996a). Spinnen (Araneae) der Wahner Heide bei Köln. Decheniana 35: 531-572.
Jäger, P. (1996b). Ergänzungen zur Kölner Spinnenfauna (Araneae). Decheniana 35: 573-578.
-->
|1996-Jocqué={{Ts.|Jocqué, R.}} (1996) Notes on African Linyphiidae (Araneae) V. Murphydium, a new genus from East-Africa. Bull. Annls Soc. r. belge Ent. 132: 235-243.
<!--
Kim, J. P. (1996a). A new species of genus Rhene (Araneae: Salticidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 1-7.
Kim, J. P. (1996b). A new species of the genus Agelena (Araneae: Agelenidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 1-5.
Kim, J. P. & B. W. Kim. (1996a). One unrecorded genus Hasarius and species (Araneae: Salticidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 15-20.
Kim, J. P. & B. W. Kim. (1996b). A new species of the genus Achaearanea (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 27-31.
Kim, J. P. & B. W. Kim. (1996c). Korean spiders of the genus Atypus Latreille, 1804 (Araneae: Atypidae). Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 55-66.
Kim, J. P. & S. D. Kim. One unrecorded species (Araneidae, Cyclosa) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 45-48.
Kim, J. P. & J. S. Yoo. One unrecorded species of the genus Cyclosa Menge, 1866 (Araneae: Araneidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 29-32.
Kirk, P. J. A new species of Poecilotheria (Araneae: Theraphosidae) from Sri Lanka. Br. Tarantula Soc. J. 12: 20-30.
Knoflach, B. (1996a). Steatoda incomposita (Denis) from southern Europe, a close relative of Steatoda albomaculata (Degeer) (Araneae: Theridiidae). Bull. Br. arachn. Soc. 10: 141-145.
Knoflach, B. (1996b). Three new species of Carniella from Thailand (Araneae, Theridiidae). Rev. suisse Zool. 103: 567-579.
Knoflach, B. (1996c). Das Männchen von Simitidion agaricographum (Levy & Amitai) (Arachnida: Araneae, Theridiidae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 83: 149-156.
Knoflach, B. (1996d). Die Arten der Steatoda phalerata-Gruppe in Europa (Arachnida: Araneae, Theridiidae). Mitt. schweiz. ent. Ges. 69: 377-404.
-->
|1996-Kritscher={{Ts.|Kritscher, E.}} (1996) Ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Spinnen-Fauna der Maltesischen Inseln (Chelicerata: Araneae). Annln naturh. Mus. Wien B 98: 117-156.
<!--
Kronestedt, T. Svartrumpspindeln-en nykomling i Sverige. Fauna och Flora 91(5/6): 11-14.
Kropf, C. Erstnachweis von Acantholycosa norvegica (Thorell, 1872) für die Schweiz und weitere bemerkenswerte Spinnenfunde (Arachnida, Araneae). Jahrb. naturhist. Mus. Bern 12: 101-112.
Levi, H. W. (1996a). The genus Taczanowskia of the orb-weaver spider family Araneidae (Araneae). Anal. Inst. biol. Univ. nac. autón. México (Zool.) 67: 183-195.
Levi, H. W. (1996b). The American orb weavers Hypognatha, Encyosaccus, Xylethrus, Gasteracantha, and Enacrosoma (Araneae, Araneidae). Bull. Mus. comp. Zool. Harv. 155: 89-157.
Levy, G. The agelenid funnel-weaver family and the spider genus Cedicus in Israel (Araneae, Agelenidae and Cybaeidae). Zool. Scripta 25: 85-122.
Li, S. Q., Y. Tao, W. S. Zhang & Y. J. Yang. On three species of linyphiid spiders from China (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 5: 10-12.
Lise, A. A. & A. Braul, Jr. Acacesia graciosa. a new species frpom the neotropical region (Araneae, Araneidae). Biociências 3: 179-184.
Logunov, D. V. (1996a). Salticidae of Middle Asia. 3. A new genus, Proszynskiana gen. n., in the subfamily Aelurillinae (Araneae, Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 171-177.
Logunov, D. V. (1996b). A critical review of the spider genera Apollophanes O. P.-Cambridge, 1898 and Thanatus C. L. Koch, 1837 in North Asia (Araneae, Philodromidae). Rev. arachnol. 11: 133-202.
Logunov, D. V. (1996c). Notes on a jumping spider collection from Israel (Aranei Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 5(1/2): 55-61.
Logunov, D. V. (1996d). Taxonomic remarks on the genera Neaetha Simon, 1884 and Cembalea Wesolowska, 1993 (Araneae: Salticidae). Genus 7: 515-532.
Logunov, D. V. (1996e). A review of the genus Phlegra Simon, 1876 in the fauna of Russia and adjacent countries (Araneae: Salticidae: Aelurillinae). Genus 7: 533-567.
Logunov, D. V. & S. Heciak. Asianellus, a new genus of the subfamily Aelurillinae (Araneae: Salticidae). Ent. scand. 26: 103-117.
Logunov, D. V. & S. Y. Rakov. A review of the spider genus Synageles Simon, 1876 (Araneae, Salticidae) in the fauna of Central Asia. Bull. Inst. roy. Sci. nat. Belg. (Ent.) 66: 65-74.
Lopez, A. Plato juberthiei (Araneae: Theridiosomatidae), nouvelle araignée souterraine de la Guyana Française. Mém. Biospéol. 23: 191-196.
-->
|1996a-Lotz={{Ts.|Lotz, L. N.}} (1996) The female of Rastellus florisbad (Araneae: Ammoxenidae). J. afr. Zool. 110: 367-368.
|1996b-Lotz={{Ts.|Lotz, L. N.}} (1996) Afrotropical Archaeidae (Araneae): 1. New species of Afrarchaea with notes on Afrarchaea godfreyi (Hewitt, 1919). Navors. nas. Mus., Bloemfontein 12: 141-160.
<!--
Maddison, W. P. Pelegrina Franganillo and other jumping spiders formerly placed in the genus Metaphidippus (Araneae: Salticidae). Bull. Mus. comp. Zool. Harv. 154: 215-368.
Main, B. Y. Biosystematics of Australian mygalomorph spiders: description of a new species of Missulena from southwestern Australia (Araneae: Mygalomorphae: Actinopodidae). Rec. West Aust. Mus. 17: 355-359.
-->
|1996-Maréchal={{Ts.|Maréchal, P.}} (1996) Psalistops gasci n.sp., première Barychelidae de Guyane française (Araneae, Mygalomorphae). Bull. Mus. natn. Hist. nat. Paris (4A) 18: 589-594.
<!--
Marques, M. A. L. & E. H. Buckup. Novas espécies sulamericanas do gênero Stemmops (Araneae; Theridiidae). Biociências 4: 69-76.
Marusik, Y. M., H. Hippa & S. Koponen. Spiders (Araneae) from the Altai area, southern Siberia. Acta Zool. Fennica 201: 11-45.
Marusik, Y. M. & D. V. Logunov. Poorly known spider species of the families Salticidae and Thomisidae (Aranei) of the Soviet Far East. In Entomological Studies in the North-East of the USSR. USSR Academy of Sciences, Institute of Biological Problems of the North, Vladivostok, pp. 131-140 (dated "1991," first distributed March, 1996).
-->
|1996-Merrett-Russell-Smith={{Ts.|Merrett, P. & A. Russell-Smith.}} (1996) New mynoglenine spiders from Ethiopia (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Mynogleninae). Bull Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 218-224.
<!--
Mikhailov, K. G. A checklist of the spiders of Russia and other territories of the former USSR. Arthropoda Selecta 5(1/2): 75-137.
Mikhailov, K. G. & Y. M. Marusik. Spiders of the north-east of the USSR. Families Clubionidae, Zoridae, Liocranidae and Gnaphosidae (genus Micaria) (Arachnida, Aranei). In Entomological Studies in the North-East of the USSR. USSR Academy of Sciences, Institute of Biological Problems of the North, Vladivostok, pp. 90-113 (dated "1991," first distributed March, 1996).
Namkung, J., M. S. Im, & S. T. Kim. A rare species of the spider, Steatoda phalerata (Panzer, 1801) from Korea (Araneae: Theridiidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 15-18.
Namkung, J., S. T. Kim & H. Y. Lim. On a water spider, Argyroneta aquatica (Clerck, 1758) from Korea (Araneae: Argyronetidae). Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 111-117.
Nigam, S. & S. K. Patel. A new species of spider of the genus Eilica (Gnaphosidae), a predator from Uttar Pradesh, India. Geobios new Reports 15: 2-4.
-->
|1996a-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (1996) New records of two Korean species of the spider families Mimetidae and Thomisidae (Araneae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 19-24.
|1996b-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (1996) Two new species of the families Liphistiidae and Thomisidae (Araneae) from the Ryukyu Islands, southwest Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 157-162.
<!--
Ono, H. & Y. Kudo. The ocular anomaly in a ground spider (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 73-75.
Ovtsharenko, V. I. & Y. M. Marusik. Additional data on the spiders of the family Gnaphosidae (Aranei) of the north-east of Asia. In Entomological Studies in the North-East of the USSR. USSR Academy of Sciences, Institute of Biological Problems of the North, Vladivostok, pp. 114-130 (dated "1991," first distributed March, 1996).
Paik, K. Y. (1996a). A new species of the genus Theridion Walckenaer, 1805 (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 9-14.
Paik, K. Y. (1996b). Korean spiders of the genus Spermophora Hentz, 1841 (Araneae: Pholcidae). Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 21-27.
Paik, K. Y. (1996c). Korean spider of the genus Anelosimus Simon, 1891 (Araneae: Theridiidae). Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 33-44.
Paik, K. Y. (1996d). Two new species and a new record spider of the genus Theridion (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 7-15.
Paik, K. Y. (1996e). Korean spider of the genus Dipoena (Araneae: Theridiidae) II. Description of two new species. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 41-46.
Paik, K. Y. (1996f). A newly record species of the genus Nesticus Thorell, 1869 (Araneae: Nesticidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 71-75.
Peng, X. J., L. S. Gong & J. P. Kim. Five new species of the family Agelenidae (Arachnida, Araneae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 17-26.
Peng, X. J. & L. P. Xie. A new species of the genus Heliophanus from China (Araneae: Salticidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 21: 32-34.
Peng, X. J., C. M. Yin & J. P. Kim. (1996a). One species of the genus Heteropoda and a description of the female Heteropoda minshana Schenkel, 1936 (Araneae: Heteropodidae). Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 57-61.
Peng, X. J., C. M. Yin & J. P. Kim. (1996b). Two new species of the genus Evippa (Araneae: Lycosidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 71-76.
Pérez G., A. Sobre la ausencia del género Crossopriza (Araneae: Pholcidae) en Cuba, con una nueva sinonimia para Artema atlanta Walckenaer, 1837. Caribbean J. Sci. 32: 431-432.
Pérez-Miles, F., S. M. Lucas, P. I. da Silva Jr., & R. Bertani. Systematic revision and cladistic analysis of Theraphosinae (Araneae: Theraphosidae). Mygalomorph 1: 33-68.
Pesarini, C. Note su alcuni Erigonidae italiani, con descrizione di una nuova specie (Araneae). Atti Soc. it. Sci. nat. Museo civ. Stor. nat. Milano 135: 413-429.
Platnick, N. I. & J. A. Murphy. A review of the zelotine ground spider genus Setaphis (Araneae, Gnaphosidae). Am. Mus. Novit. 3162: 1-23.
Prinsen, J. D. (1996a). Theridion uhligi Martin, 1974 (Araneae: Theridiidae), een zeldzame kogelspin van heideterreinen. Nieuwsbrief Spined 10: 4-7.
Prinsen, J. D. (1996b). Eperigone eschatologica (Crosby, 1924) (Araneae: Linyphiidae), een nieuwe spin in Nederlandse kassen. Nieuwsbrief Spined 11: 1-3.
Ramírez, M. J. (1996a). The genus Callevopsis Tullgren (Araneae, Dictynoidea). Extra (Mus. argent. Cienc. nat., nueva ser.) 144: 1-8.
Ramírez, M. J. (1996b). Descripción de la hembra de Glenognatha lacteovittata (Mello-Leitão), nueva combinación (Araneae, Tetragnathidae). Physis B. Aires (C) 52: 35-37.
-->
|1996-Ramírez-Grismado={{Ts.|Ramírez, M. J. & C. J. Grismado.}} (1996) A new Fernandezina from Brazil (Araneae, Palpimanidae). Iheringia (Zool.) 80: 117-119.
|1996a-Reichling-West={{Ts.|Reichling, S. B. & R. C. West.}} (1996) A new genus and species of theraphosid spider from Belize (Araneae, Theraphosidae). J. Arachnol. 24: 254-261.
|1996-Reid={{Ts.|Reid, A. L.}} (1996) Review of the Peripatopsidae (Onychophora) in Australia, with comments on peripatopsid relationships. Invertebrate Taxonomy 10: 663–936. doi: 10.1071/IT9960663
|1996-Reiskind-Cushing={{Ts.|Reiskind, J. & Cushing, P. E.}} (1996) Study of a narrow hybrid zone between two wolf spiders, ''Lycosa ammophila'' and ''Lycosa ericeticola'', in north Florida (Araneae, Lycosidae). Rev. suisse Zool., vol. hors série 2: 543-554.
|1996a-Rudloff={{Ts.|Rudloff, J.-P.}} (1996) Primer reporte de una especie de la familia Cyrtauchenidae [sic] de Cuba inclusive una descripción de una nueva especie del genéro Bolostromus (Ausserer, 1875) (Cyrtauchenidae [sic]: Mygalomorphae: Araneida). Garciana 24: 11-14.
|1996b-Rudloff={{Ts.|Rudloff, J.-P.}} (1996) Erstnachweis der Gattung Ummidia Thorell, 1879 auf Kuba (Ctenizidae: Mygalomorphae). Arthropoda 4: 48-54.
|1996c-Rudloff={{Ts.|Rudloff, J.-P.}} (1996) Cyrtopholis schmidti sp. n., eine neue Cyrtopholis-Art aus Brasilien (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(5): 2-8.
|1996a-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1996) Notes on the Japanese species of the genera Tapinopa and Floronia (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae: Micronetinae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 1-6.
|1996b-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1996) Theridiosomatid spiders of the granitic islands of Seychelles (Araneae, Theridiosomatidae). Phelsuma 4: 48-52.
|1996c-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1996)Symphytognathidae (Arachnida, Araneae), a new spider family for the granitic islands of Seychelles. Phelsuma 4: 53-56.
<!--
Saaristo, M. I. & K. Y. Eskov. Taxonomy and zoogeography of the hypoarctic erigonine spider genus Semljicola (Araneida, Linyphiidae). Acta Zool. Fennica 201: 47-69.
Saaristo, M. I. & A. V. Tanasevitch. (1996a). Three new Lepthyphantes Menge, 1866, from Iran and Turkey (Aranei Linyphiidae). Arthropoda Selecta 4(3/4): 61-64.
Saaristo, M. I. & A. V. Tanasevitch. (1996b). Redelimitation of the subfamily Micronetinae Hull, 1920 and the genus Lepthyphantes Menge, 1866 with descriptions of some new genera (Aranei, Linyphiidae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 83: 163-186.
Schaefer, R. Bemerkungen zu einigen Gattungen der Familie Theraphosidae inklusive der Beschreibung einer neuen Art aus Paraguay: Tmesiphantes spinopalpus sp. n. (Araneida: Theraphosidae). Arthropoda 4: 24-31.
Schmidt, G. (1996a). Die Typusart von Phrixotrichus Simon, 1888 (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(9): 14-18.
Schmidt, G. (1996b). Grammostola ist kein Synonym von Phrixotrichus (Araneae: Theraphosidae). Arthropoda 4: 67-70.
Schmidt, G. & D. Antonelli. Eine extrem abweichende ?Pamphobeteus-Art aus Peru (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(12): 1-12.
-->
|1996-Schmidt-Bauer={{Ts.|Schmidt, G. & S. Bauer.}} (1996) Eine weitere Tapinauchenius-Art aus Ecuador Tapinauchenius cupreus sp. n. (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Aviculariinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(10): 1-6.
<!--Schmidt, G. & M. Bullmer. Das Weibchen von Brachypelma epicureanum (Chamberlin, 1925) (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(7): 3-7.
Schmidt, G. & S. Huber. Chilobrachys huahini sp. n. (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Selenocosmiinae), eine Vogelspinne aus Thailand. Arachnol. Mag. 4(1): 1-7.
Schmidt, G. & F. Kovarik. Nesipelma insulare gen. and sp. n. from the Nevis Island, Lesser Antilles (Arachnida; Araneida: Theraphosidae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(6): 1-9.
Schmidt, G. & R. H. Krause. Weitere Spinnenfunde von den Kanarischen Inseln, hauptsächlich von Fuerteventura und Lobos (Arachnida: Araneae). Faunist. Abhandl. staatl. Mus. Tierk. Dresden 20: 259-273.
Schmidt, G. & V. von Wirth. Haplocosmia nepalensis gen. et sp. n., die erste Vogelspinne aus Nepal (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Selenocosmiinae). Arthropoda 4: 12-15.
Schmidt, G. & D. Weinmann. Eine weitere Citharacanthus-Species aus Guatemala Citharacanthus livingstoni sp. n. (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(3): 1-11.
-->
|1996-Schwendinger={{Ts.|Schwendinger, P. J.}} (1996) New Liphistius species (Araneae, Mesothelae) from western and eastern Thailand. Zool. Scripta 25: 123-141.
<!--
Seo, B. K. A new species of the genus Solenysa (Araneae: Linyphiidae) from Korea. J. Inst. nat. Sci. Keimyung Univ. 15: 157-160.
Smith, A. M. A new species of Haplopelma (Araneae: Theraphosidae), with notes on two close relatives. Mygalomorph 1: 21-32.
Song, D. X. & J. Haupt. Arachnida Araneae. In Insects of the Karakorum-Kunlun Mountains, pp. 311-318.
Song, D. X., Y. M. Qian, Z. L. Gao & F. Liu. Four species of spiders from tobacco plantation in Anhui, China. Acta arachnol. sin. 5: 105-110.
Stankiewicz, A. A redescription of Gnaphosa microps Holm, a spider new to Polish fauna (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Bull. Polish Acad. Sci. Biol. Sci. 43: 211-215.
Struchen, R. & D. Brändle. Eine neue Avicularia-Art aus Pernambuco, Brasiien Avicularia recifiensis sp. n. (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Aviculariinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(2): 1-9.
Struchen, R., D. Brändle & G. Schmidt. Eine seltsame Aphonopelma-Art aus Mexiko, Aphonopelma bicoloratum sp. n. (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(11): 1-8.
Suhm, M. & G. Alberti. The fine structure of the spermatheca of Pardosa lugubris (Walckenaer, 1802). Rev. suisse Zool., vol. hors série 2: 635-642.
Suhm, M., K. Thaler & G. Alberti. Glands in the male palpal organ and the origin of the mating plug in Amaurobius species (Araneae: Amaurobiidae). Zool. Anz. 234: 191-199.
Tanasevitch, A. V. (1996a). New species of genus Incestophantes Tanasevitch, 1992 from southern Siberia and the Far East, with notes on systematics of this genus (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae: Micronetinae). Reichenbachia 31: 113-122.
Tanasevitch, A. V. (1996b). Reassessment of the spider genus Wubanoides Eskov, 1986 (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae). Reichenbachia 31: 123-129.
Tanasevitch, A. V. (1996c). Two new genera of the family Linyphiidae from Tuva, south Siberia, Russia (Arachnida Aranei Linyphiidae). Arthropoda Selecta 4(3/4): 65-69.
Tang, Y. Q., Y. T. Yang & J. P. Kim. A new species of genus Hahnia (Araneae: Hahniidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 67-69.
Tanikawa, A. New records of Tetragnatha bituberculata (Araneae: Tetragnathidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 151-155.
Tanikawa, A., T. Chida & K. I. Kumada. New records of Argyrodes flavescens (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 47-52.
Tesmoingt, M. (1996a). Contribution à l'étude taxonomique et description de Avicularia huriana de l'Equateur et de Avicularia sp. du Brésil (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Aviculariinae). Etude préliminaire de certains détails morphologiques. Arachnides 28: 5-11.
Tesmoingt, M. (1996b). Description du male de Avicularia huriana (Tesmoingt, 1996). Notes complémentaires sur les femelles et sur Avicularia ulrichea n. sp. du Brésil (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Aviculariinae). Arachnides 29: 2-8.
Tesmoingt, M. (1996c). Une nouvelle espece d'Aphonopelma du Mexique: Description et contribution à l'etude taxonomique de Aphonopelma braunshausenii sp. n. (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Theraphosinae). Arachnides 31: 2-7.
Tesmoingt, M. (1996d). Une nouvelle espece d'Avicularia du Perou: Description de Avicularia azuraklaasi sp. n. et contribution à l'etude taxonomique de cette espece (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Aviculariinae). Arachnides 31: 8-11.
Thaler, K. Three Walckenaeria species from Peloponnese, Greece (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Bull. Br. arachn. Soc. 10: 156-160.
Traw, M. B. A revision of the Neotropical orb-weaving spider genus Scoloderus (Araneae: Araneidae). Psyche 102: 49-72.
Urones, C. Precisiones taxonómicas sobre algunas especies de Thomisidae y Philodromidae (Araneae). Boln. Asoc. esp. Ent. 20: 31-39.
Wang, J. F., X. J. Peng & J. P. Kim. Two new species of the genus Coras (Araneae, Agelenidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 77-81.
Weiss, I. Centromerus piccolo n. sp., eine neue Baldachinspinne aus NW-Deutschland (Arachnida, Araneae, Linyphiidae). Verh. naturwiss. Ver. Hamburg 35: 227-236.
Weiss, I. & S. M. Sarbu. Das unbekannte Männchen der Höhlenspinne Hahnia caeca n. comb., mit Hinweisen zur Funktion der Tibial-Apophyse des männlichen Pedipalpus (Arachnida, Araneae, Hahniidae). Verh. naturwiss. Ver. Hamburg 36: 163-171.
Weiss, I. & E. Schneider. Erstbeschreibung des Weibchens von Dactylopisthes digiticeps (Simon, 1881) (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae). Annln naturh. Mus. Wien B 98: 111-116.
Wesolowska, W. New data on the jumping spiders of Turkmenistan (Aranei Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 5(1/2): 17-53.
Witt, G. Eine neue Psalmopoeus-Species aus Belize Psalmopoeus maya sp. n. (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Aviculariinae). Arachnol. Mag. 4(4): 1-14.
Wozny, M. & K. Baldy. Pajak Collinsia inerrans (O. P. Cambridge) (Aranei: Linyphiidae) w Polsce. Przegla. Zool. 40: 205-206.
Wozny, M. & P. Siwek. Zodarion rubidum Simon (Aranei, Zodariidae) - nowy dla Polski gatunek pajaka. Przegla. Zool. 40: 73-75.
Xie, L. P. & J. P. Kim. Three new species of the genus Oxyopes from China (Araneae: Oxyopidae). Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 33-40.
Xie, L. P., C. M. Yin, H. M. Yan & J. P. Kim. Two new species of the family Clubionidae from China (Arachnida: Araneae). Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 97-101.
Yang, Y. T. & Y. Q. Tang. Three new species of family Salticidae from Gansu, China (Araneae). J. Lanzhou Univ. (nat. Sci.) 32: 104-106.
Yin, C. M., Y. H. Bao & Y. J. Zhang. On two new species of wolf spiders from Zhejiang Province (Araneae: Lycosidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 5: 5-9.
Yin, C. M. & L. S. Gong. Four orb-weaver spiders of the family Araneidae from Hunan Province of China (Arachnida: Araneae). Acta Sci. nat. Univ. norm. Hunan 19: 72-76.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng, L. S. Gong & J. P. Kim. Description of three new species of the genus Hitobia (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 12(2): 47-54.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng & J. F. Wang. Three new species of the genus Lycosa from China (Araneae: Lycosidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 5: 111-116.
Yin, C. M., L. P. Xie & Y. H. Bao. Two new species of family Araneidae from China (Arachnida: Araneae). Acta arachnol. sin. 5: 1-4.
Yin, C. M., L. P. Xie, L. S. Gong & J. P. Kim. Four new species of the genus Castianeira from China (Araneae: Corinnidae). Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 87-95.
Yin, C. M., H. M. Yan, L. S. Gong & J. P. Kim. Three new species of the spiders of genus Clubiona (Araneae: Clubionidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 63-70.
Yin, C. M. & J. Z. Zhao. One new species of the genus Lycosa from China (Araneae: Lycosidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 5: 117-119.
Yoshida, H. A new species of the genus Chrysso (Araneae: Theridiidae) from the Ryukyus, Japan and Taiwan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 45: 139-141.
Żabka, M. Bulolia, a new genus of Salticidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from Papua New Guinea. Rev. suisse Zool., vol. hors série 2: 701-707.
Żabka, M. & D. Kovac. Paracyrba wanlessi - a new genus and species of Spartaeinae from peninsular Malaysia, with notes on its biology (Arachnida: Araneae: Salticidae). Senckenberg. biol. 76: 153-161.
Zhang, Y. J. & J. P. Kim. Three new species of the family Heteropodidae from China (Arachnida: Araneae). Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 77-85.
Zhang, Y. J., C. M. Yin & J. P. Kim. The new species of the genus Clubiona from China (Araneae: Clubionidae). Korean Arachnol. 12(1): 49-55.
-->
<!-- 1997 -->

|1997-Arnedo-Oromí-Ribera={{Ts.|Arnedo, M. A., P. Oromí & C. Ribera}} (1997) Radiation of the genus Dysdera (Araneae, Haplogynae, Dysderidae) in the Canary Islands: The western islands. Zool. Scripta 25: 241-274.
|1997-Arnedo-Ribera={{Ts.|Arnedo, M. A. & C. Ribera}} (1997) Radiation of the genus Dysdera (Araneae, Haplogynae, Dysderidae) in the Canary Islands: The island of Gran Canaria. Zool. Scripta 26: 205-243.
<!--
Baert, L. & J.-P. Maelfait. Taxonomy, distribution and ecology of the lycosid spiders occurring on the Santa Cruz island, Galápagos Archipelago, Ecuador. Proc. 16th Europ. Coll. Arachnol., pp. 1-11.
Baker, A. S. & P. A. Selden. New morphological and host data for the ectoparasitic larva of Leptus hidakai Kawashima (Acari, Acariformes, Erythraeidae). Syst. Parasitology 36: 183-191.
Bartos, M. Development of male pedipalps prior to the final moulting in Pholcus phalangioides (Fuesslin) (Araneae, Pholcidae). Proc. 16th Europ. Coll. Arachnol., pp. 27-35.
Bauchhenss, E., I. Weiss & F. Toth. Neufunde von Zelotes mundus (Kulczynski, 1897) mit Beschreibung des Weibchens. Arachnol. Mitt. 13: 43-47.
-->
|1997-Bauer-Antonelli={{Ts.|Bauer, S. & D. Antonelli}} (1997) Eine weitere Tapinauchenius-Art aus Ecuador: Tapinauchenius subcaeruleus n. sp. (Arachnida: Araneae: Theraphosidae: Aviculariinae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 107: 428-432.
|1997-Beladjal-Bosmans={{Ts.|Beladjal, L. & R. Bosmans.}} (1997) Nouvelles données sur le genre Harpactea Bristowe en Algérie (Araneae, Dysderidae). Rev. arachnol. 12: 9-29.
<!--
Bellmann, H. Kosmos-Atlas Spinnentiere Europas. Frankh-Kosmos Verlag, Stuttgart, 304 pp.
Berry, J. W., J. A. Beatty & J. Prószyński. Salticidae of the Pacific Islands. II. Distribution of nine genera, with descriptions of eleven new species. J. Arachnol. 25: 109-136.
Biswas, V., S. Saha & D. Raychaudhuri. Araneidae and Theridiidae of Buxa Tiger Reserve, West Bengal: Genera Leucauge White, Cyrtophora Stoliczka and Theridula Emerton. Entomon 22: 229-233.
Bjørn, P. P. A taxonomic revision of the African part of the orb-weaving genus Argiope (araneae: Araneidae). Ent. scand. 28: 199-239.
Bonaldo, A. B. (1997a). On the new Neotropical spider genus Ianduba (Araneae, Corinnidae). Iheringia (Zool.) 83: 165-180.
Bonaldo, A. B. (1997b). Sobre uma espécie nova do gênero Ericaella (Araneae, Miturgidae, Eutichurinae). Iheringia (Zool.) 83: 199-202.
Bonaldo, A. B. & A. D. Brescovit. Uma nova espécie do gênero Oltacloea (Araneae, Prodidomidae). Iheringia (Zool.) 82: 81-84.
Bond, J. E. & B. D. Opell. Systematics of the spider genera Mallos and Mexitlia (Araneae, Dictynidae). Zool. J. Linn. Soc. 119: 389-445.
Bosmans, R. Revision of the genus Zodarion Walckenaer, 1833, part II. Western and Central Europe, including Italy (Araneae: Zodariidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 265-294.
Bosselaers, J. Zoropsis cyprogenia sp. n., a new, probably endemic spider species from Cyprus (Araneae, Zoropsidae). Phegea 25: 162-168.
Braul, A., M. Rocha-Silveira & A. A. Lise. Descrição das fêmeas de Ashtabula sexguttata e Ilargus coccineus e do macho de Euophrys saitiformis (Araneae, Salticidae). Biociências 5: 141-150.
Brescovit, A. D. (1997a). Revisão de Anyphaeninae Bertkau a nivel de gêneros na região Neotropical (Araneae, Anyphaenidae). Revta bras. Zool. 13(Suppl.1): 1-187.
Brescovit, A. D. (1997b). Revisão das aranhas neotropicais do gênero Wulfilopsis Soares & Camargo, 1955 (Araneae, Anyphaenidae). Arachnologia 25-26: 1-15.
Buchar, J. Lycosidae aus Bhutan 1. Venoniinae und Lycosinae (Arachnida: Araneae). Ent. Basil. 20: 5-32.
Buchar, J. & K. Thaler. Die Wolfspinnen von Österreich 4 (Schluss): Gattung Pardosa max. p. (Arachnida, Araneae: Lycosidae) - Faunistisch-tiergeographische Übersicht. Carinthia II 187: 515-539.
Chang, Y. H. & H. W. Chang. Gea spinipes C. L. Koch, 1843 (Araneae: Araneidae), a new addition to Taiwan fauna. Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 83-85.
Chen, J. A. & J. Z. Zhao. Four new species of the genus Coelotes from Hubei, China (Araneae, Amaurobiidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 87-92.
Chen, S. H. Two newly recorded spiders of the genera Tetragnatha and Leucauge (Araneae: Tetragnathidae) in Taiwan. Biol. Bull. Natl. Taiwan norm. Univ. 31: 113-118.
-->
|1997-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1997) El género Selenops (Araneae, Selenopidae) en América del Sur: Descriptción de nuevas especies. Iheringia (Zool.) 82: 75-80.
|1997a-Danilov={{Ts.|Danilov, S. N.}} (1997) New data on the spider genus Micaria Westring, 1851 in Asia (Aranei Gnaphosidae). Arthropoda Selecta 5(3/4): 113-116.
|1997b-Danilov={{Ts.|Danilov, S. N.}} (1997) New data on the jumping spiders from south Siberia (Arnaei Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 6(1/2): 113-116.
<!--
Deltshev, C. (1997a). Cryphoecina deelemanae gen. n., sp. n., a remarkable spider from the mountains of Montenegro (Yugoslavia) (Arachnida, Araneae, Hahniidae). Rev. suisse Zool. 104: 485-489.
Deltshev, C. (1997b). A new species of Cybaeidae: Cybaeus balkanus spec. nov. from the mountains of Balkan peninsula (Arachnida: Araneae). Reichenbachia 32: 1-4.
Deltshev, C. & B. P. M. Curcic. Contribution to the knowledge of the group europaeus of Centromerus Dahl (Linyphiidae, Araneae) in the Balkan Peninsula. Rev. suisse Zool. 104: 49-55.
Di Franco, F. Contributo alla conoscenza dei ragni dell'Italia centrale. Gli Gnaphosidae dei Monti della Tolfa (Lazio) (Araneae). Fragm. ent. 29: 253-266.
Dimitrov, D. Description of Harpactea strandjica, sp. n. from Bulgaria (Araneae, Dysderidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 322.
Dippenaar-Schoeman, A. S. & R. Jocqué. African Spiders: An Identification Manual. Plant Protection Res. Inst. Handbook, no. 9, Pretoria, 392 pp.
Efimik, V. E., S. L. Esyunin & S. F. Kuznetsov. Remarks on the Ural spider fauna, 7. New data on the fauna of the Orenburg area (Arachnida Aranei). Arthropoda Selecta 6(1/2): 85-100.
Emerit, M. A contribution to the knowledge of Malagasy spiders: the presence of Chorizopinae, an Asian subfamily of Araneidae. Rev. arachnol. 12: 43-52.
Esyunin, S. L. & V. E. Efimik. Remarks on the Ural spider fauna, 6. New data on the taxonomy and faunistics of gnaphosid spiders of the south Urals (Arachnida Aranei Gnaphosidae). Arthropoda Selecta 5(3/4): 105-111.
Eskov, K. Y. & Y. M. Marusik. A new species of erigonine spider genus Erigonoplus (Aranei Linyphiidae) from south Siberia. Arthropoda Selecta 6(1/2): 91-93.
Fei, R. I., J. C. Gao & J. A. Chen. A new species of the genus Halorates in China (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Erigoninae). J. Northeast Normal Univ. 3(3): 54-56.
Fei, R. I., J. C. Gao & C. D. Zhu. A new species of the genus Trichoncus in Changbai Mountain District of Jilin, China (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Erigoninae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 22: 130-133.
Felton, C. Gnaphosa nigerrima L. Koch (Araneae: Gnaphosidae), a spider new to Britain. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 311-312.
Galiano, M. E. Descripción de Amphidraus argentinensis, nueva especie (Arnaeae, Salticidae). Physis B. Aires (C) 53: 33-36.
Gardzinska, J. & B. Patoleta. Notes on the genus Thorelliola Strand, 1942 (Araneae: Salticidae). Mem. Qd Mus. 42: 213-222.
Gasparo, F. (1997a). I disderidi delle Isole Tremiti (Araneae, Dysderidae). Atti Soc. it. Sci. nat. Museo civ. Stor. nat. Milano 136: 195-204.
Gasparo, F. (1997b). Due nuove specie del genere Dysdera dell'Appennino centro-settentrionale (Araneae, Dysderidae). Fragm. ent. 29: 239-251.
Griswold, C. E. (1997a). The spider family Cyatholipidae in Madagascar (Araneae, Araneoidea). J. Arachnol. 25: 53-83.
Griswold, C. E. (1997b). Scharffia, a remarkable new genus of spiders from East Africa (Araneae, Cyatholipidae). J. Arachnol. 25: 269-287.
Gromov, A. V. New records of spider Achaearanea tabulata Levi (Arachnida: Araneae, Theridiidae) in Palearctics. Izvest. Minister. Nauki Akad. Nauk Repub. Kazakhstan Ser. Biol. Med. 1997(1): 31-35.
Höfer, H. & A. D. Brescovit. On Ctenus maculisternis Stramd (Araneae, Ctenidae). Mitt. zool. Mus. Berl. 73: 89-93.
-->
|1997a-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B. A.}} (1997) On the distinction between Modisimius and Hedypsilus (Araneae, Pholcidae), with notes on behavior and natural history. Zool. Scripta 25: 233-240.
|1997b-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B. A.}} (1997) On American 'Micromerys' and Metagonia (Araneae, Pholcidae), with notes on natural history and genital mechanics. Zool. Scripta 25: 341-363.
|1997c-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B. A.}} (1997) Redescriptions of Eugène Simon's neotropical pholcids (Araneae, Pholcidae). Zoosystema 19: 573-612.
|1997-Huber-Eberhard={{Ts.|Huber, B. A. & W. G. Eberhard.}} (1997) Courtship, copulation, and genital mechanics in Physocyclus globosus (Araneae, Pholcidae). Can. J. Zool. 74: 905-918.
|1997-Ikeda-Saito={{Ts.|Ikeda, H. & S. Saito.}} (1997) New records of a Korean species, Evarcha fasciata Seo, 1992 (Araneae: Salticidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 125-131.
|1997-Irie={{Ts.|Irie, T.}} (1997) Two new species of the genera Pholcus and Spermophora (Araneae: Pholcidae) from the Kyushu, Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 133-138.
|1997a-Jastrzebski={{Ts.|Jastrzebski, P.}} (1997) Salticidae from the Himalayas. Genus Menemerus Simon, 1868 (Araneae: Salticidae). Ent. Basil. 20: 33-44.
|1997b-Jastrzebski={{Ts.|Jastrzebski, P.}} (1997) Salticidae from the Himalayas. Genus Rhene Thorell, 1869 (Araneae: Salticidae). Ent. Basil. 20: 45-56.
|1997c-Jastrzebski={{Ts.|Jastrzebski, P.}} (1997) Salticidae from the Himalayas. Subfamily Spartaeinae Wanless, 1984 (Araneae: Salticidae). Genus 8: 701-713.
<!--
Jocqué, R. & T. Steyn. Petaloctenus, a new genus of Ctenidae from West-Africa (Arachnida, Araneae). Bull. Inst. roy. Sci. nat. Belg. (Ent.) 67: 107-117.
Kamura, T. Two species of the genera Cladothela and Trachyzelotes (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from Yaeyama Islands, southwest Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 77-81.
Kim, J. P. (1997a). A new species of the genus Castianeira (Araneae: Corinnidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 13(1): 1-5.
Kim, J. P. (1997b). The spider fauna of Kogum-do, Korea. Korean J. syst. Zool. 13: 199-210.
Kim, J. P. & B. W. Kim. One unrecorded species of the genus Dipoena Thorell, 1869 (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 13(1): 19-23.
Kim, J. P. & J. S. Yoo. (1997a). Korean spiders of the genus Pardosa C. L. Koch, 1848 (Araneae: Lycosidae). Korean Arachnol. 13(1): 31-45.
Kim, J. P. & J. S. Yoo. (1997b). A new species of the genus Plexippoides (Araneae: Salticidae) from Korea. Kor. J. environm. Biol. 15: 71-74.
Knoflach, B. Zur Taxonomie, Verbreitung und Sexualbiologie von Theridion adrianopoli Drensky (Arachnida: Araneae, Theridiidae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 84: 133-148.
Kronestedt, T. First record of Aulonia kratochvili (Araneae, Lycosidae) from Europe. Arachnol. Mitt. 14: 77-80.
Kumari, M. & O. P. Mittal. Two new species of crab spiders of the genus Thomisus (family: Thomisidae) from India. Bionature 17: 31-33.
Kupryjanowicz, J. (1997a). Spiders of the Biebrza National Park - species new and rare to Poland. Proc. 16th Europ. Coll. Arachnol., pp. 183-194.
Kupryjanowicz, J. (1997b). Titanoeca psammophila Wunderlich, 1993 in Poland (Araneae: Titanoecidae). Bull. Polish Acad. Sci. biol. Sci. 44: 57-60.
Kupryjanowicz, J., A. Stankiewicz & I. Hajdamowicz. Meioneta mossica Schikor 1993 in Poland (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Bull. Polish Acad. Sci. biol. Sci. 45: 41-43.
Levi, H. W. The American orb weavers of the genera Mecynogea, Manogea, Kapogea and Cyrtophora (Araneae: Araneidae). Bull. Mus. comp. Zool. Harv. 155: 215-255.
Li, S. Q., et al. A newly recorded species of the genus Lophomma from Hebei province China (Linyphiidae: Erigoninae). J. Hebei Univ. 17(2): 67-68.
Logunov, D. V. (1997a). Salticidae of Middle Asia. 4. A review of the genus Euophrys (s. str.) C. L. Koch (Araneae, Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 344-352.
Logunov, D. V. (1997b). Taxonomic notes on some Central Asian philodromid spiders (Aranei Philodromidae). Arthropoda Selecta 6(1/2): 99-104.
Logunov, D. V., H. Ikeda & H. Ono. Jumping spiders of the genera Harmochirus, Bianor and Stertinius (Araneae, Salticidae) from Japan. Bull. natn. Sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 23: 1-16.
Logunov, D. V. & T. Kronestedt. A new Palearctic species of the genus Sitticus Simon, with notes on related species in the floricola group (Araneae, Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 225-233.
-->
|1997-Lopez-Lopez={{Ts.|Lopez, A. & B. Lopez.}} (1997) Observations sur deux araignées de la Grotte Fourgassié (Guyana Française): Paratropis papilligera Pick. Cambr., 1896 (Mygalomorphae: Paratropididae) et Ochyrocera caeruleoamethystina n. sp. (Araneomorphae: Ochyroceratidae). Mém. Biospéol. 24: 33-42.
<!--
Marques, M. A. L. & E. H. Buckup. Duas novas espécies de Chrosiothes e descrição do macho de C. niteroi (Araneae, Theridiidae). Iheringia (Zool.) 83: 181-186.
Mcheidze, T. S. [Spiders of Georgia: Systematics, Ecology, Zoogeographic Review]. Tbilisi Univ., 390 pp. (in Georgian).
Merrett, P. & N. P. Ashmole. Redescription of Catonetria caeca Millidge & Ashmole from Ascension Island (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 247-248.
Metzner, H. Neues zur Springspinnenfauna Deutschlands (Arachnida: Araneae: Salticidae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 107: 258-264.
Mikhailov, K. G. (1997a). Redescription of Clubiona dubia O. Pickard-Cambridge, 1869 (Aranei Clubionidae) from Saint Helena Island. Arthropoda Selecta 6(1/2): 95-97.
Mikhailov, K. G. (1997b). Spiders of the genus Clubiona Latreille, 1804 (Aranei, Clubionidae) of North Korea. Ann. hist.-nat. Mus. natl. Hungarici 89: 187-195.
Mikhailov, K. G. (1997c). Catalogue of the spiders of the territories of the former Soviet Union (Arachnida, Aranei). Moscow, Zool. Mus., Moscow State. Univ., 416 pp.
-->
|1997-Milledge={{Ts.|Milledge, G. A.}} (1997) A new species of Progradungula Forster and Gray (Araneae: Gradungulidae) from Victoria. Mem. Mus. Victoria 56: 65-68.
|1997-Mostovski={{Ts.|Mostovski, M. B.}} (1997) On Knowledge of Fossil Flies of the Superfamily Achisargoidea (Diptera, Brachycera). Paleontological Journal 31(1):72-78
|1997a-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (1997) A new species of the genus Heptathela (Araneae: Liphistiidae) from Vietnam. Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 23-28.
|1997b-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (1997) New species of the genera Ryuthela and Tmarus (Araneae, Liphistiidae and Thomisidae) from the Ryukyu Islands, southwest Japan. Bull. natn. sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 23: 149-163.
<!--
Ott, R. & A. A. Lise. (1997a). Duas espécies novas de Labicymbium Millidge, 1991 da região neotropical (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Biociências 5: 53-59.
Ott, R. & A. A. Lise. (1997b). Proposição de Acanthocymbium gen. n. e descrição de duas espécies novas de Antronetes Millidge, da Região Neotropical (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Biociências 5: 195-205.
Peng, X. J. & J. P. Kim. Three new species of the genus Eupoa from China (Araneae: Salticidae). Korean J. syst. Zool. 13: 193-198.
Peng, X. J. & J. F. Wang. Seven new species of the genus Coelotes (Araneae: Agelenidae) from China. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 327-333.
Peng, X. J., C. M. Yin, Y. J. Zhang & J. P. Kim. Five new species of the family Lycosidae from China (Arachnida: Araneae). Korean Arachnol. 13(2): 41-49.
Pérez G., A. Presencia de Loxosceles caribbaea (Araneae: Loxoscelidae) en Cuba. Cocuyo 6: 8-9.
Pesarini, C. I ragni (Arachnida Araneae) del Monte Barro (Italia, Lombardia, Lecco). Mem. Soc. ital. Sci. nat. Museo civ. Stor. nat. Milano 27: 251-263.
-->
|1997-Platnick={{Ts.|Platnick, N. I.}} (1997) On some Camillina from southern Africa (Araneae, Gnaphosidae). J. Arachnol. 25: 97-98.
|1997-Platnick-Schwendinger-Steiner={{Ts.|Platnick, N. I., P. J. Schwendinger & H. Steiner.}} Three new species of the spider genus Liphistius (Araneae, Mesothelae) from Malaysia. Am. Mus. Novit. 3209: 1-13.
<!--
Prentice, T. R. Theraphosidae of the Mojave Desert west and north of the Colorado River (Araneae, Mygalomorphae, Theraphosidae). J. Arachnol. 25: 137-176.
Rakov, S. Y. A review of the spider genus Evarcha Simon, 1902 in Middle Asia (Aranei Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 6(1/2): 105-112.
Rakov, S. Y. & D. V. Logunov. (1997a). A critical review of the genus Heliophanus C. L. Koch, 1833, of Middle Asia and the Caucasus (Aranei Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 5(3/4): 67-104.
Rakov, S. Y. & D. V. Logunov. (1997b). Taxonomic notes on the genus Menemerus Simon, 1868 in the fauna of Middle Asia (Araneae, Salticidae). Proc. 16th Europ. Coll. Arachnol., pp. 271-279.
Ramírez, M. J. Revisión y filogenia de los géneros Ferrieria y Acanthoceto (Araneae: Anyphaenidae, Amaurobioidinae). Iheringia (Zool.) 82: 173-203.
Ramírez, M. J., A. B. Bonaldo, & A. D. Brescovit. Revisión del género Macerio y comentarios sobre la ubicación de Cheiracanthium, Tecution y Helebiona (Araneae, Miturgidae, Eutichurinae). Iheringia (Zool.) 82: 43-66.
Ramírez, M. J. & C. J. Grismado. A review of the spider family Filistatidae in Argentina (Arachnida, Araneae), with a cladistic reanalysis of filistatid genera. Ent. scand. 28: 319-349.
-->
|1997a-Reichling={{Ts.|Reichling, S. B.}} (1997) A new species of Crypsidromus from Belize (Araneae, Mygalomorphae, Theraphosidae). J. Arachnol. 25: 49-52.
|1997b-Reichling={{Ts.|Reichling, S. B.}} (1997) A diminutive new species of Acanthopelma from Belize (Araneae: Theraphosidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 337-340.
<!--
Relys, V. & I. Weiss. Micrargus alpinus sp. n., eine weitere Art der M. herbigradus-Gruppe aus Österreich (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae). Rev. suisse Zool. 104: 491-501.
Rudloff, J.-P. (1997a). Revision der Gattung Holothele Karsch, 1879 nebst Aufstellung einer neuen Gattung Stichoplastoris gen. nov. (Araneae, Theraphosidae) und Wiedereinsetzung einiger weiterer Gattungen der Mygalomorphae. Arachnol. Mag. 5(2): 1-19.
Rudloff, J.-P. (1997b). Ergebnisse der Untersuchung einiger Spinnen aus der Sammlung des American Museum of Natural History (AMNH), New York (Araneae: Mygalomorphae). Arachnol. Mag. 5(3): 8-11.
-->
|1997a-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1997) Description of Megalepthyphantes pseudocollinus n. sp. (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Micronetinae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 257-259.
|1997b-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1997) A new species of Tapinopa Westring from Turkey (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae: Micronetinae). Reichenbachia 32: 5-7.
|1997c-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1997) Scytotids [sic] (Arachnida, Araneae, Scytodidae) of the granitic islands of Seychelles. Phelsuma 5: 49-57.
|1997d-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1997) Oecobiids of the granitic islands of Seychelles (Araneae, Oecobiidae). Phelsuma 5: 69-71.
<!--
Scharff, N. & J. A. Coddington. A phylogenetic analysis of the orb-weaving spider family Araneidae (Arachnida, Araneae). Zool. J. Linn. Soc. 120: 355-434.
Schmidt, G. (1997a). Das Männchen von Cyrtopholis flavostriatus Schmidt, 1995 (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arthropoda 5(2): 2-4.
Schmidt, G. (1997b). Das Weibchen von Metriopelma familiare (Simon, 1889) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 5(3): 1-7.
Schmidt, G. (1997c). Das Weibchen won Castianeira rubicunda Keyserling, 1879 (Araneae: Corinnidae: Castianeirinae). Arachnol. Mag. 5(6): 6-10.
Schmidt, G. (1997d). Eine zweite Brachypelmides-Art aus Mexiko: Brachypelmides ruhnaui n. sp. (Arachnida: Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 107: 205-208.
Schmidt, G. (1997e). Nhandu tripartitus sp. n. (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae), eine zweite Nhandu-Art. Arachnol. Mag. 5(7): 1-5.
Schmidt, G. (1997f). Das Männchen von Lasiodorides polycuspulatus Schmidt & Bischoff 1997 (Arachnida: Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 107: 487-490.
Schmidt, G. (1997g). Bestimmungsschlüssel für die Gattungen der Unterfamilie Theraphosinae (Araneae: Theraphosidae). Arachnol. Mag., Sonderausgabe 3: 1-27.
Schmidt, G. & B. Bischoff. Die Gattung Lasiodorides n. gen. und ihre Typus-Art Lasiodorides polycuspulatus n. sp. (Arachnida: Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 107: 153-159.
Schmidt, G. & V. Herzig. Das Männchen von Chromatopelma cyanopubescens (Strand, 1907) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arthropoda 5(3): 11-14.
Schmidt, G. & F. Piepho. Das Weibchen von Aphonopelma stoicum (Chamberlin, 1925) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 5(6): 1-5.
Schmidt, G. & D. Weinmann. Eine neue Pseudhapalopus-Art aus Kolumbien (Arachnida: Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 107: 69-72.
-->
|1997-Schwendinger={{Ts.|Schwendinger, P. J. in Platnick, N. I., P. J. Schwendinger & H. Steiner.}} Three new species of the spider genus Liphistius (Araneae, Mesothelae) from Malaysia. Am. Mus. Novit. 3209: 1-13.
<!--
Scioscia, C. L. Revisión del género Parnaenus Peckham y Peckham, 1896 (Araneae, Salticidae). Physis B. Aires (C) 53: 37-47.
Seo, B. K. & S. R. Sohn. A new species of genus Ozyptila (Araneae: Thomisidae) from Korea. J. Inst. Nat. Sci. Keimyung Univ. 16: 41-43.
Sierwald, P. Phylogenetic analysis of pisaurine nursery web spiders, with revisions of Tetragonophthalma and Perenethis (Araneae, Lycosoidea, Pisauridae). J. Arachnol. 25: 361-407.
Snazell, R. & R. Bosmans. A little known Zodarion (Araneae: Zodariidae) new to Britain. J. Zool., Lond. 241: 285-289.
Snazell, R. & J. Murphy. Zelominor (Araneae, Gnaphosidae), a new genus of zelotine spider from the western Mediterranean region. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 260-264.
Song, D. X., J. Chen & M. S. Zhu. Arachnida: Araneae. In Yang, X. K. (ed.), Insects of the Three Gorge Reservoir area of Yangtze River. Chongqing Publ. House, 2: 1704-1743.
Song, D. X. & J. P. Kim. On seven new species of the family Zodariidae (Araneae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 13(1): 7-17.
Song, D. X. & S. Q. Li. Spiders of Wuling Mountains area. In Song, D. X. (ed.), Invertebrates of Wuling Mountains Area, Southwestern China. Science Press, Beijing, pp. 400-448.
-->
|1997-Song-Wu={{Ts.|Song, D. X. & K. Y. Wu.}} (1997) On a new species of the genus Heptathela (Araneae: Liphistiidae) from Hong Kong, China. Chinese J. Zool. 32(3): 1-3.
<!--
Song, D. X., L. P. Xie, M. S. Zhu & K. Y. Wu. Notes on some jumping spiders (Araneae: Salticidae) of Hong Kong. Sichuan J. Zool. 16: 149-152.
Song, D. X. & M. S. Zhu. Fauna Sinica: Arachnida: Araneae: Thomisidae, Philodromidae. Science Press, Beijing, viii + 259 pp.
Song, D. X., M. S. Zhu & K. Y. Wu. Some new species of the spiders from Hong Kong. Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 81-86.
Stratton, G. E. A new species of Schizocosa from the southeastern USA (Araneae, Lycosidae). J. Arachnol. 25: 84-92.
Tang, G. M., Urita, D. X. Song & Y. W. Zhao. (1997a). Three species of the Zelotes from Helan Mountain, Inner Mongolia (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 9-12.
Tang, G. M., Urita, D. X. Song & Y. W. Zhao. (1997b). A new species and a new record of the genus Micaria (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from China. Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 13-16.
Tang, G. M., Y. W. Zhao, D. X. Song & J. Hao. On the gnaphosids from Mt. Helanshan, Inner Mongolia (Araneae). J. Inner Mongolia norm. Univ. (nat. Sci. Ed.) 4: 58-61.
Tang, Y. Q. & Y. T. Yang. A new species of the genus Portia from China (Araneae: Salticidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 22: 353-355.
Tanikawa, A. (1997a). A description of the male of Cyclosa angusta (Araneae: Araneidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 29-31.
Tanikawa, A. (1997b). Japanese spiders of the genus Ordgarius (Araneae: Araneidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 101-110.
Tanikawa, A. & Y. H. Chang. New records of Metleucauge davidi (Araneae: Tetragnathidae) from Taiwan with the first desription of the male. Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 121-123.
Tansley, G. Cast-skin sex determination of tarantulas: a 'what to look for' guide. Br. Tarantula Soc. Jour. 13: 55-56.
Tesmoingt, M., F. Cleton & J. M. Verdez. (1997a). Description de Brachypelma annitha n. sp. et de Brachypelma hamorii n. sp. mâles et femelles, nouvelles espèces proches de Brachypelma smithi (Cambridge, 1897) du Mexique. Arachnides 32: 8-20.
Tesmoingt, M., F. Cleton & J. M. Verdez. (1997b). Description de Brachypelma annitha n. sp. et de Brachypelma hamorii n. sp. mâles et femelles, nouvelles espèces proches de Brachypelma smithi (Cambridge, 1897) du Mexique. 2ème partie. Arachnides 33: 2-10.
Thaler, K. (1997a). Tallusia pindos n.sp. aus N-Griechenland (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Linzer biol. Beitr. 29: 377-384.
Thaler, K. (1997b). Beiträge zur Spinnenfauna von Nordtirol - 4. Dionycha (Anyphaenidae, Clubionide, Heteropodidae, Liocranidae, Philodromidae, Salticidae, Thomisidae, Zoridae). Veröff. Mus. Ferdinandeum Innsbr. 77: 233-285.
Thaler, K., J. Buchar & A. Kurka. A new species of Linyphiidae (Araneae) from the sudeto-carpathian range (Czech Republic and Slovakia). Acta Soc. zool. Bohem. 61: 389-394.
Vanuytven, H. Spinnen van het havengebied op de Antwerpse rechter Scheldeoever. Nwsbr. belg. arachnol. Ver. 12: 1-24.
Vetter, R. S. & T. R. Prentice. Callobius guachama (Araneae, Amaurobiidae): habitat, distribution, and description of the female. J. Arachnol. 25: 177-181.
Vollmer, P. Chaetopelma karlamani sp. n., (Araneida: Theraphosidae: Ischnocolinae) eine Vogelspinne aus Nord-Zypern. Tarantulas of the World, Ausgabe 16, Dec. 1997: 4-18.
Wang, X. P. On three Agelena species from China (Araneae, Agelenidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 10: 253-256.
Wesolowska, W. A redescription of ant-like jumping spider Depreissia myrmex Lessert, 1942 (Araneae: Salticidae). Genus 8: 715-717.
Wishart, G. & D. M. Rowell. Phenotypic variation in sexual and somatic morphology in the trapdoor spider Misgolas hubbardi Wishart in relation to its genotypic variation (Mygalomorphae: Idiopidae). Aust. J. Ent. 36: 213-219.
Xie, L. P., X. J. Peng, Y. J. Zhang, L. S. Gong & J. P. Kim. Five new species of the family Uloboridae (Arachnida: Araneae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 13(2): 33-39 [N.B.: name of first author mistakenly given as L. P. Xian in publication].
Xu, Y. J. Discovery of the female of Gamasomorpha anhuiensis (Araneae: Oonopidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 17-18.
Yan, H. M., C. M. Yin, X. J. Peng, Y. H. Bao & J. P. Kim. One new species of the genus Pirata from China (Araneae: Lycosidae). Korean Arachnol. 13(2): 17-18.
Yang, Y. T. & Y. Q. Tang. Two new species of the family Salticidae from China (Araneae). J. Lanzhou Univ. (nat. Sci.) 33: 93-96.
Yang, Y. T., Y. Q. Tang & J. P. Kim. A new species of genus Yaginumaella (Aranneae [sic]: Salticidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 13(1): 47-49.
Yin, C. M. & J. P. Kim. The current status and trends in the research of Chinese arachnology. Korean Arachnol. 13(2): 51-80.
Yin, C. M. & X. J. Peng. A new species of the Ocyale (Araneae, Lycosidae) from China. Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 6-8.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng & Y. H. Bao. Two new species of the genus Arctosa (Araneae, Lycosidae) from China. Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 1-5.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng, L. S. Gong & J. P. Kim. Three new species of the genus Phrurolithus (Araneae: Liocranidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 13(1): 25-30.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng, L. S. Gong, Y. F. Chen & J. P. Kim. Six new species of the genus Pardosa from China (Araneae: Lycosidae). Korean Arachnol. 13(2): 19-31.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng & J. P. Kim. One new species of the genus Pardosa (Araneae, Lycosidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 13(1): 51-53.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng, L. P. Xie, Y. H. Bao & J. F. Wang. Lycosids in China (Arachnida: Araneae). Hunan Normal Univ. Press, 317 pp.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng & Y. J. Zhang. One new species of the genus Wadicosa (Araneae, Lycosidae) from China. Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 99-101.
Yin, C. M., J. F. Wang, M. S. Zhu, L. P. Xie, X. J. Peng & Y. H. Bao. Fauna Sinica: Arachnida: Araneae: Araneidae. Science Press, Beijing, xiii + 460 pp.
Yin, C. M., J. Z. Zhao & Y. H. Bao. One new species of the genus Lycosa from China (Araneae: Lycosidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 96-98.
Yoshida, H. A newly recorded species of the genus Euryopis (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 46: 111-113.
Żabka, M. Salticidae: Pajaki skaczace (Arachnida: Araneae). Fauna Polski 19: 1-188.
Żabka, M. & J. Kupryjanowicz. Redescription and notes on biology and distribution of Talavera westringi (Simon, 1868) comb. nov. (Araneae: Salticidae). Genus 8: 169-173.
Zhang, Y. J., X. J. Peng & J. P. Kim. Five new species of the genus Coelotes (Araneae: Agelenidae) from China. Korean J. syst. Zool. 13: 291-296.
Zhang, Y. J., C. M. Yin, Y. H. Bao & J. P. Kim. Four new species of the genus Clubiona (Arenea [sic]: Clubionidae) from China. Korean J. syst. Zool. 13: 297-302.
Zhu, M. S., J. P. Kim & D. X. Song. On three new genera and four new species of the family Tetragnathidae (Araneae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 13(2): 1-10.
Zhu, M. S. & D. X. Song. A new species of the genus Euryopis from China (Araneae: Theridiidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 6: 93-95.
Zhu, M. S. & H. L. Zhang. A new species and a newly recorded species of the genus Dipoenura from China (Araneae: Theridiidae). Acta zool. sin. 43(Suppl.): 22-25.
-->
<!-- 1998 -->
<!--
Baehr, B. The genus Hersilia: phylogeny and distribution in Australia and New Guinea (Arachnida, Araneae, Hersiliidae). In Seldon, P. A. (ed.), Proceedings of the 17th European Colloquium of Arachnology, Edinburgh 1997. Edinburgh, pp. 61-65.
Baehr, B. & M. Baehr. New species and new records of Hersiliidae from Australia (Arachnida: Araneae: Hersiliidae). Sixth supplement to the revision of the Australian Hersiliidae. Rec. West. Aust. Mus. 19: 13-28.
Barrion, A. T. (1998a). A new species of jumping spider, Orthrus calilungae (Araneae: Salticidae) from Luzon Island, Philippines. Philipp. Ent. 12: 85-90.
Barrion, A. T. (1998b). Tetragnatha rimandoi (Araneae: Tetragnathidae), a new species of long-jawed orb-weaving spider from the Philippines. Philipp. Ent. 12: 155-159.
Barth, F. G. & D. Cordes. Cupiennius remedius new species (Araneae, Ctenidae), and a key for the genus. J. Arachnol. 26: 133-141.
Baumgarten, M. Das Männchen von Vitalius cristatus (Mello-Leitão, 1923) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(12): 1-8.
Berry, J. W., J. A. Beatty & J. Prószyński. Salticidae of the Pacific Islands. III. Distribution of seven genera with descriptions of nineteen new species and two new genera. J. Arachnol. 26: 149-189.
Biswas, V. & D. Raychaudhuri. (1998a). Spiders of the genus Cyclosa Menge (Araneae: Araneidae) from Bangladesh. Entomon 23: 45-53.
Biswas, V. & D. Raychaudhuri. (1998b). Jumping spiders of Bangladesh: Genus Plexippus Koch (Araneae: Salticidae). Rec. zool. Surv. India 96: 167-171.
Bonaldo, A. B. & A. D. Brescovit. On Ecitocobius, a new genus from central Amazonia with comments on the tribe Attacobiini (Arachnida, Araneae, Corinnidae, Corinninae). Spixiana 21: 165-172.
Bosselaers, J. Nesticus henderickxi (Araneae, Nesticidae), a new blind troglobitic spider from Crete. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 9-14.
Bosselaers, J. & J.-C. Ledoux. Description of a new African genus, Hortipes (Araneae, Liocranidae). Rev. arachnol. 12: 147-152.
Brescovit, A. D. (1998a). Sobre o gênero Osoriella: Descrição de duas espécies novas e da fêmea de O. rubella (Araneae, Anyphaenidae, Anyphaeninae). Iheringia (Zool.) 84: 109-120.
Brescovit, A. D. (1998b). New species, synonymies and records of the Neotropical spider genus Anyphaenoides Berland (Araneae, Anyphaenidae, Anyphaeninae). Stud. neotrop. Fauna Environm. 33: 149-156.
Brescovit, A. D. & A. B. Bonaldo. Uma espécie nova de Lygromma (Araneae, Prodidomidae) e descrição das fêmeas de L. gasnieri e L. huberti. Revta bras. Ent. 41: 137-139.
Brescovit, A. D. & E. H. Buckup. Zimiromus (Araneae, Gnaphosidae): Espécies novas, descrições complementares e novas ocorrências do Brasil. Iheringia (Zool.) 84: 167-174.
Brescovit, A. D. & M. Simó. On a new species of Asthenoctenus Simon from Brazil, with notes on the systematics of the genus (Araneae, Ctenidae). Aracnologia 27: 1-8.
Buchar, J. & A. Kurka. Nasi pavouci. Academia Praha, 154 pp.
Buchar, J. & K. Thaler. Lycosidae from the high alpine zone of the Caucasus range, with comparative remarks on the fauna of the Alps (Arachnida: Araneae). Linzer biol. Beitr. 30: 705-717.
Capocasale, R. M. Arañas del Uruguay, VIII. Contribución al conocimiento de Segestria ruficeps Guérin (araneae, Segestriidae). Comun. zool. Mus. Hist. nat. Montev. 190: 1-12.
Chen, J., D. X. Song & J. P. Kim. Two new species and two new records of Chinese wolf spiders (Araneae: Lycosidae). Korean Arachnol. 14(1): 70-76 [also reprinted in Korean Arachnol. 14(2): 66-72].
Chen, J. A. & J. Z. Zhao. A new species of genus Coelotes and a species of genus Agelena from wouthwest Hubei, China (Araneae: Amaurobiidae, Agelenidae). Sichuan J. Zool. 17: 3-4.
-->
|1998a-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1998) Sobre la distribución geográfica de Anyphops Benoit (Araneae, Selenopidae): Primer registro y nueva especie para Madagascar. Biogeographica 74: 23-26.
|1998a-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1998) Selenops rhodesianus Lawrence 1940, sinónimo de S. lesnei Lessert 1936 (Araneae: Selenopidae). Neotrópica 44: 80.
|1998a-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1998) Revisión del género Selenops Latreille (Araneae, Selenopidae), para la República Argentina. Acta Zool. lilloana 44: 313-325.
|1998a-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (1998) The South American spiders of the genus Selenops (Araneae, Selenopidae) with a description of three new species. Stud. neotrop. Fauna Environm. 33: 124-148.
|1998-Costa-Pérez-Miles={{Ts.|Costa, F. G. & F. Pérez-Miles}} (1998) Behavior, life cycle and webs of Mecicobothrium thorelli (Araneae, Mygalomorphae, Mecicobothriidae). J. Arachnol. 26: 317-329.
-->
|1998a-Davies={{Ts.|Davies, V. T.}} (1998) A revision of the Australian metaltellines (Araneae: Amaurobioidea: Amphinectidae: Metaltellinae). Invertebr. Taxon. 12: 211-243.
|1998b-Davies={{Ts.|Davies, V. T.}} (1998) A redescription and renaming of the Tasmanian spider Amphinecta milvina (Simon, 1903), with descriptions of four new species (Araneae: Amaurobioidea: Amaurobiidae). In Seldon, P. A. (ed.), Proceedings of the 17th European Colloquium of Arachnology, Edinburgh 1997. Edinburgh, pp. 67-82.
<!--
Di Franco, F. Gnaphosidae (Arachnida, Araneae) della Riserva naturale orientata "Oasi de Vendicari" (Siracusa). Boll. Acc. Gioenia Sci. nat. 30: 331-340.
Draney, M. L. Sougambus georgiensis Chamberlin & Ivie, a junior synonym of Goneatara platyrhinus (Crosby & Bishop) (Araneae, Linyphiidae, Erigoninae). J. Arachnol. 26: 247-248.
Eberhard, W. G. & B. A. Huber. Courtship, copulation, and sperm transfer in Leucauge mariana (Araneae, Tetragnathidae) with implications for higher classification. J. Arachnol. 26: 342-368.
El-Hennawy, H. K. Redescription of the male of Dorceus quadrispilotus Simon, 1908 from Egypt (Araneae: Eresidae). In Seldon, P. A. (ed.), Proceedings of the 17th European Colloquium of Arachnology, Edinburgh 1997. Edinburgh, pp. 97-100.
Esyunin, S. L. & V. E. Efimik. Remarks on the Ural spider fauna, 8. New and unidentified species from steppe landscapes of the south Urals (Arachnida: Aranei). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 145-152.
Finke, T. Bemerkungen zur Taxonomie, Haltung und Nachzucht von Stromatopelma calceatum griseipes Pocock, 1897 (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Stromatopelminae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(4): 7-12.
Galiano, M. E. (1998a). Revision of the genus Chinoscopus (Araneae, Salticidae, Lyssomanidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 1-9.
Galiano, M. E. (1998b). Description of three new species of Neonella (Araneae, Salticidae). J. Arachnol. 26: 14-18.
Ganesh Kumar, M. & M. Mohanasundaram. A new species of ant-like spider from cotton fields of Tamil Nadu (Araneae: Salticidae). Zoos' Print J. 13(11): 27-28.
-->
|1998-González-Sponga={{Ts.|González-Sponga, M. A.}} (1998) Arácnidos de Venezuela. Cuatro nuevos géneros y cuatro nuevas especies de la familia Pholcidae Koch, 1850 (Araneae). Mem. Soc. Cienc. nat. La Salle 57: 17-31.
<!--
Griswold, C. E. (1998a). Wanzia fako, a new genus and species of spider from Cameroon (Araneae: Cyatholipidae). Ent. scand. 29: 121-130.
Griswold, C. E. (1998b). The nest and male of the trap-door spider Poecilomigas basilleupi (Araneae, Mygalomorphae, Migidae). J. Arachnol. 26: 142-148.
Griswold, C. E., J. A. Coddington, G. Hormiga & N. Scharff. Phylogeny of the orb-web building spiders (Araneae, Orbiculariae: Deinopoidea, Araneoidea). Zool. J. Linn. Soc. 123: 1-99.
Groppali, R., P. Guerci & C. Pesarini. Appunti sui Ragni (Arachnida, Araneae) della costa orientale di Eivissa (Ibiza), con la descrizione di una nuova specie: Cyclosa groppalii Pesarini (Araneidae). Boll. Soc. Hist. nat. Balears 41: 65-74.
-->
|1998-Harvey={{Ts.|Harvey, M. S.}} (1998) A review of the Australasian species of Anapistula Gertsch (Araneae: Symphytognathidae). Rec. West. Aust. Mus. 19: 111-120.
|1998-Hirst={{Ts.|Hirst, D. B.}} (1998) Irilika, a new heteropodine genus (Araneae: Heteropodidae) from Western Australia. Rec. West. Aust. Mus. 19: 141-144.
|1998-Hormiga={{Ts.|Hormiga, G.}} (1998) The spider genus Napometa (Araneae, Araneoidea, Linyphiidae). J. Arachnol. 26: 125-132.
|1998a-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B.}} (1998) Report on some pholcid spiders collected in Guatemala and Honduras (Araneae, Pholcidae). Rev. suisse Zool. 105: 49-80.
|1998b-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B.}} (1998) The pholcid spiders of Costa Rica (Araneae: Pholcidae). Rev. Biol. Trop. 45: 1583-1634.
|1998c-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B.}} (1998) Genital mechanics in some neotropical pholcid spiders (Araneae: Pholcidae), with implications for systematics. J. Zool., Lond. 244: 587-599.
|1998d-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B.}} (1998) On the "valve" in the genitalia of female pholcids (Pholcidae, Araneae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 41-48.
|1998e-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B.}} (1998) Notes on the Neotropical spider genus Modisimus (Pholcidae, Araneae), with descriptions of thirteen new species from Costa Rica and neighboring countries. J. Arachnol. 26: 19-60.
|1998-Huber=Pérez={{Ts.|Huber, B. & A. Pérez G.}} (1998) Leptopholcus delicatulus (Araneae, Pholcidae) is a valid name. J. Arachnol. 26: 251-256.
<!--
Ikeda, H. Spiders of the genus Laufeia (Araneae: Salticidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 37-43.
Irie, T. A new eyeless spider of the genus Cybaeus (Araneae: Cybaeidae) found in a limestone cave of Kyushu, Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 97-100.
Jäger, P. Weitere Funde von Nesticus eremita (Araneae: Nesticidae) in Süddeutschland mit Angaben zur Taxonomie im Vergleich zu N. cellulanus. Arachnol. Mitt. 15: 13-20.
Kamura, T. Taxonomic notes on Gnaphosidae (Araneae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 169-171.
Kim, J. P. (1998a). Taxonomic study of N. adianta and N. doenitzi in the genus Neoscona from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 14(1): 1-5.
Kim, J. P. (1998b). One unrecorded species of the genus Coelotes (Araneae: Agelenidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 14(1): 6-8.
Kim, J. P. (1998c). Taxonomic revision of the genus Araniella (Araneae: Araneidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 14(2): 1-7.
Kim, J. P. & D. J. Lee. Distribution and taxonomic review of Urocteidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 14(2): 51-65.
Knoflach, B. Mating in Theridion varians Hahn and related species (Araneae: Theridiidae). J. nat. Hist. 32: 545-604.
Kropf, C. Distribution and geographic variation of Comaroma simonii Bertkau, 1889 (Arachnida, Araneae, Anapidae). In Ebermann, E. (ed.), Arthropod Biology: Contributions to Morphology, Ecology, and Systematics. Biosystematics and Ecology Series 14: 315-331.
Ledoux, J.-C. & M. Emerit. Quelques espèces du genre africain Hortipes Bosselaers & Ledoux et leur coupelle métatarsale (Araneae, Liocranidae?). Rev. arachnol. 12: 153-168.
Lee, J. D. Agelena tungchis (Araneae, Agelenidae), a new funnel-weaver from Taiwan. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 67-68.
Leroy, J.-M., R. Jocqué & A. Leroy. On the behaviour of the African bolas-spider Cladomelea akermani Hewitt (Araneae, Araneidae, Cyrtarachninae), with description of the male. Ann. Natal Mus. 39: 1-9.
Levy, G. (1998a). Twelve genera of orb-weaver spiders (Araneae, Araneidae) from Israel. Israel J. Zool. 43: 311-365.
Levy, G. (1998b). Araneae: Theridiidae. In Fauna Palaestina, Arachnida III. Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities, Jerusalem.
Levy, G. (1998c). The ground-spider genera Setaphis, Trachyzelotes, Zelotes, and Drassyllus (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) in Israel. Israel J. Zool. 44: 93-158.
Logunov, D. V. (1998a). The spider genus Neon Simon, 1876 (Araneae, Salticidae) in SE Asia, with notes on the genitalia and skin pore structures. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 15-22.
Logunov, D. V. (1998b). Pseudeuophrys is a valid genus of the jumping spiders (Araneae, Salticidae). Rev. arachnol. 12: 109-128.
Logunov, D. V. (1998c). New species and new records of Palaearctic Sitticus (Araneae: Salticidae). Zoosystematica Rossica 7: 77-83.
Logunov, D. V. & Y. M. Marusik. A new species of the genus Xysticus from the mountains of south Siberia and Mongolia (Araneae, Thomisidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 103-106.
Logunov, D. V. & S. Y. Rakov. Miscellaneous notes on Middle Asian jumping spiders (Aranei: Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 117-144.
-->
|1998-Lotz={{Ts.|Lotz, L. N.}} (1998) The description of the male of Latrodectus menavodi (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Madagascar with new records from the Comoros. Navors. nas. Mus., Bloemfontein 14: 73-79.
|1998-Maréchal-Marty={{Ts.|Maréchal, P. & C. Marty.}} (1998) Réhabilitation du genre Harmonicon (Pickard-Cambridge, 1896) et description d'une nouvelle espèce de Guyana française (Araneae, Mygalomorphae, Dipluridae). Zoosystema 20: 499-504.
|1998-Marusik-Esyunin={{Ts.|Marusik, Y. M. & S. L. Esyunin.}} (1998) A new species of the spider genus Pelecopsis Simon, 1864 (Aranei Linyphiidae) from south Siberia. Arthropoda Selecta 6(3/4): 105-108.
|1998-Marusik-Koponen={{Ts.|Marusik, Y. M. & S. Koponen.}} (1998) New and little known spiders of the subfamily Dictyninae (Araneae: Dictynidae) from south Siberia. Ent. Problems 29: 79-86.
|1998-Marusik-Logunov={{Ts.|Marusik, Y. M. & D. V. Logunov.}} (1998) Taxonomic notes on the Evarcha falcata species complex (Aranei Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 6(3/4): 95-104.
|1998-Marusik-Tanasevitch={{Ts.|Marusik, Y. M. & A. V. Tanasevitch.}} (1998) Notes on the spider genus Styloctetor Simon, 1884 and some related genera, with description of two new species from Siberia (Aranei: Linyphiidae). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 153-159.
|1998-Méndez={{Ts.|Méndez, M.}} (1998) Sobre algunos Araneidae y Tetragnathidae (Araneae) del Parque Nacional de la Montaña de Covadonga (NO España). Boln. Asoc. esp. Ent. 22: 139-148.
|1998-Merrett={{Ts.|Merrett, P.}} (1998) Lathys puta (O. P.-Cambridge, 1863) is a junior synonym of Argenna subnigra (O. P.-Cambridge, 1861), not a senior synonym of Lathys stigmatisata (Menge, 1869) (Araneae: Dictynidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 120.
<!--
Mikhailov, K. G. (1998a). A revision of the Chinese sac spiders of the genus Clubiona described by E. Schenkel in 1936 (Aranei Clubionidae). Arthropoda Selecta 6(3/4): 87-93.
Mikhailov, K. G. (1998b). Catalogue of the spiders (Arachnida, Aranei) of the territories of the former Soviet Union. Addendum 1. KMK Scientific Press, Moscow, 48 pp.
Milasowszky, N., M. E. Herberstein & K. P. Zulka. Morphological separation of Trochosa robusta (Simon, 1876) and Trochosa ruricola (De Geer, 1778) females (Araneae: Lycosidae). In Seldon, P. A. (ed.), Proceedings of the 17th European Colloquium of Arachnology, Edinburgh 1997. Edinburgh, pp. 91-96.
Oliger, T. I. The spider genus Pholcus Walckenaer, 1805, in the Maritime Province, Russian Far East (Aranei: Pholcidae). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 111-115.
-->
|1998-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (1998) Spiders of the genus Heptathela (Araneae, Liphistiidae) from Kyushu, Japan. Mem. natn. sci. Mus. Tokyo 30: 13-27.
<!--
Ovtsharenko, V. I. & N. I. Platnick. Taxonomic notes on the ground spider genus Gnaphosa (Araneae, Gnaphosidae). Am. Mus. Novit. 3234: 1-4.
Peng, X. J. & J. P. Kim. Four species of jumping spiders (Araneae: Salticidae) from China. Korean J. biol. Sci. 2: 411-414.
Peng, X. J., H. M. Yan, M. X. Liu & J. P. Kim. Two new species of the genus Coelotes (Araneae, Agelenidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 14(1): 77-80.
Peng, X. J. & C. M. Yin. Four new species of the genus Coelotes (Araneae, Agelenidae) from China. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 26-28.
Peng, X. J., C. M. Yin, H. M. Yan & J. P. Kim. Five jumping spiders of the family Salticidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 14(2): 36-43.
-->
|1998a-Pérez-Miles={{Ts.|Pérez-Miles, F.}} (1998) Notes on the systematics of the little known theraphosid spider Hemirrhagus cervinus, with a description of a new type of urticating hair. J. Arachnol. 26: 120-123.
|1998b-Pérez-Miles={{Ts.|Pérez-Miles, F.}} (1998) Revision and phylogenetic analysis of the neotropical genus Cyriocosmus Simon, 1903 (Araneae, Theraphosidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 95-103.
<!--
Peters, H.-J. Tarantulas of the world: Afrika's Vogelspinnen. Published by the author, 122 pp.
Platnick, N. I. Advances in spider taxonomy 1992-1995 with redescriptions 1940-1980. New York, New York Entomological Society, 976 pp.
Platnick, N. I. & J. A. Murphy. On the widespread species Zelotes schmitzi (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 118-119.
Pozzi, S. & A. Hänggi. Araignées nouvelle ou peu connues de la Suisse (Arachnida: Araneae). Mitt. schweiz. ent. Ges. 71: 33-47.
Prószyński, J. Description of new species of Phlegra (Araneae: Salticidae) from Israel. Israel J. Zool. 44: 159-185.
-->
|1998-Ren={{Ts.|Ren, D.}} (1998) Late Jurassic Brachycera from northeastern China (Insecta: Diptera). ''Acta Zootaxonomica Sinica'', '''23'''(1): 65-83.
|1998-Roberts={{Ts.|Roberts, M. J.}} (1998) Spinnengids. Tirion, Baarn, Netherlands, 397 pp.
<!--
Rudloff, J.-P. Einige Anmerkungen zur Gattung Citharacanthus Pocock, 1901 (Theraphosinae: Theraphosidae: Mygalomorphae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(1): 1-13.
Ruzicka, V. & M. Holec. New records of spiders from pond littorals in the Czech Republic. Arachnol. Mitt. 16: 1-7.
-->
|1998-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1998) Ochyroceratid spiders of the granitic islands of Seychelles (Araneae, Ochyroceratidae). Phelsuma 6: 20-26.
<!--
Saaristo, M. I. & S. Koponen. A review of northern Canadian spiders of the genus Agyneta (Araneae, Linyphiidae), with descriptions of two new species. Can. J. Zool. 76: 566-583.
Sacher, P. & R. Bellstedt. Bathyphantes similis und Diplocephalus helleri - zwei übersehene Spinnenarten der Bergbäche (Arachnida: Araneae, Linyphiidae). Abh. Ber. Mus. nat. Gotha 20: 91-96, 137-138.
Sadana, G. L. & A. Gupta. A new salticid spider from India. J. Bombay nat. Hist. Soc. 95: 469-472.
Schmidt, G. (1998a). Eine neue Haplopelma-Art aus Thailand? (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Ornithoctoninae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(3): 1-8.
Schmidt, G. (1998b). Ein Leserbrief, der nicht gedruckt wurde. Arachnol. Mag. 6(3): 9-12.
Schmidt, G. (1998c). Brazilopelma coloratovillosum gen. et sp. n. (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae), eine lange verkannte Vogelspinne. Arachnol. Mag. 6(4): 1-6.
Schmidt, G. (1998d). Vitalius vulpinus sp. n., eine neue Vitalius-Spezies aus Nordbrasilien (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(5): 1-6.
Schmidt, G. (1998e). Ein rätselhafter Doppelgänger von Acanthoscurria geniculata (C. L. Koch, 1841) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(6/7): 2-4.
Schmidt, G. (1998f). Das Genus-Konzept bei Theraphosidae, vornehmlich Theraphosinae (Araneae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(10/11): 1-13.
Schmidt, G. (1998g). "Zum Beitrag von Günter Schmidt"-Ein rätselhafter Doppelgänger von Acanthoscuriia geniculata. Arachnol. Mag. 6(10/11): 16.
Schmidt, G. (1998h). Bestimmungsschlüssel für die Gattungen der Unterfamilie Theraphosinae (Araneae: Theraphosidae). 2. Aktualisierte Auflage. Arachnol. Mag., Sonderausgabe 4: 1-28.
Schmidt, G. (1998i). Die chilenischen Vogelspinnen der Gattungen Grammostola Simon, 1892, Paraphysa Simon, 1892, Euathlus Ausserer, 1875 und Thrixopelma Schmidt, 1994 (Araneae: Mygalomorphae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae) mit Beschreibung einer neuen Thrixoplema-Spezies. Arthropoda 6(1): 3-10.
Schmidt, G. & R. H. Krause. Spinnen von Santo Antão und Maio sowie zwei Salticidae von Fogo und São Nicolau (Cabo Verde) (Arachnida: Araneae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 108: 416-428.
Schmidt, G. & R. Samm. (1998a). Das Männchen von Vitalius vulpinus Schmidt, 1998 (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(8/9): 2-6.
Schmidt, G. & R. Samm. (1998b). Das Männchen von Brazilopelma coloratovillosum Schmidt, 1998 (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 6(8/9): 7-12.
-->
|1998-Schwendinger={{Ts.|Schwendinger, P. J.}} (1998) Five new Liphistius species (Araneae, Mesothelae) from Thailand. Zool. Scr. 27: 17-30.
|1998-Shimojana-Haupt={{Ts.|Shimojana, M. & J. Haupt.}} (1998) Taxonomy and natural history of the funnel-web spider genus Macrothele (Araneae: Hexathelidae: Macrothelinae) in the Ryukyu Islands (Japan) and Taiwan. Species Diversity 3: 1-15.
<!--
Snazell, R. & R. Bosmans. Zodarion vicinum Denis, 1935: New to Britain. Newsl. Br. arachnol. Soc. 81: 8-10.
Song, D. X. & M. S. Zhu. (1998a). A new genus and two new species of Hong Kong spiders (Gnaphosidae, Corinnidae). J. Hebei. norm. Univ. (nat. Sci.) 22: 104-108.
Song, D. X. & M. S. Zhu. (1998b). Two new species of the family Salticidae (Araneae) from China. Acta arachnol. sin. 7: 26-29.
Szinetár, C. A Dráva mente pókfauna (Araneae) kutatásának faunisztikai eredményei. Donántúli Dolg. Term. tud. Sorozat 9: 97-110.
Szinetár, C., Z. Gál & J. Eichardt. Spiders in snail shells in different Hungarian localities. Misc. Zool. Hungarica 12: 67-75.
Szita, É., F. Samu, K. Bleicher & E. Botos. Data to the spider fauna of Körös-Maros National Park (Hungary). Acta Phytopathol. Ent. Hung. 33: 341-348.
Tanaka, H. A new species of the genus Pardosa (Araneae: Lycosidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 101-103.
Tanasevitch, A. V. (1998a). Gorbothorax n. gen., a new linyphiid spider genus from the Nepal Himalayas (Arachnida, Araneae, Linyphiidae). Bonn zool. Beitr. 47: 421-428.
Tanasevitch, A. V. (1998b). New Oedothorax Bertkau, 1883, from Nepal (Arachnida, Araneae, Linyphiidae). Bonn zool. Beitr. 47: 429-441.
Tang, G. M. & Y. W. Zhao. A new species of the genus Parasyrisca from China (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 7: 110-112.
Tang, Y. Q, C. M. Yin & J. T. Yang. Three new species of family Lycosidae from Gansu, China (Araneae). J. Langzhou Univ. (nat. Sci.) 34: 90-93.
Tanikawa, A. (1998a). The new synonymy of the spider genus Argyrodes (Araneae: Theridiidae) and a description of a new species from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 21-26.
Tanikawa, A. (1998b). A revision of the Japanese spiders of the genus Neoscona (Araneae: Araneidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 133-168.
Thaler, K. & B. Knoflach. (1998a). Phyxelida anatolica Griswold, new to Cyprus (Arachnida Araneae: Amaurobiidae, Phyxelidinae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 36-40.
Thaler, K. & B. Knoflach. (1998b). Die Zangherella-Arten Italiens (Araneae, Anapidae): Verbreitung und Merkmale. Mitt. schweiz. ent. Ges. 71: 73-81.
Thaler, K. & B. Knoflach. (1998c). Zoropsis spinimana (Dufour), eine für Österreich neue Adventivart (Araneae, Zoropsidae). Ber. net.-med. Verein Innsbruck 85: 173-185.
Thaler, K. & B. Knoflach. (1998d). Two new species and new records of the genus Amaurobius (Araneae, Amaurobiidae) from Greece. In Seldon, P. A. (ed.), Proceedings of the 17th European Colloquium of Arachnology, Edinburgh 1997. Edinburgh, pp. 107-114.
Thaler, K. & V. Zingerle. Ozyptila ladina n. sp. from the Dolomites, northern Italy (Araneae, Thomisidae). Boll. Soc. entomol. ital. 130: 99-104.
Uhl, G. & F. Vollrath. Genital morphology of Nephila edulis: implications for sperm competition in spiders. Can. J. Zool. 76: 39-47.
Urones, C. Descripción de Oxyptila bejarana n. sp. de la Sierra de Béjar (Salamanca, España) (Araneae, Thomisidae). Rev. arachnol. 12: 79-88.
Vink, C. J. & P. J. Sirvid. The Oxyopidae (lynx spiders) of New Zealand. New Zeal. Ent. 21: 1-9.
Wang, X. G. & G. S. Xi. A new species of the genus Tmarus from Shaanxi Province, China (Araneae: Thomisidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 7: 33-35.
Wang, X. P. & H. Ono. The coelotine spiders (Araneae, Amaurobiidae) of Taiwan. Bull. natn. sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 24: 141-159.
Wang, X. P. & J. C. Ran. A new cave spider of the genus Telema (Araneae: Telemidae) from China. Acta Zool. Taiwanica 9: 93-96.
Weiss, I. (1998a). Oxyptila danubiana spec. nova aus dem Donau-Delta, Rumänien (Araneae, Thomisidae). Linzer biol. Beitr. 30: 259-262.
Weiss, I. (1998b). Asthenargus carpaticus spec. nova aus dem Fogarascher Gebirge, Rumänien (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Linzer biol. Beitr. 30: 455-457.
Weiss, I. & I. Moldován. Bemerkenswerte Spinnenfunde aus der Siebenbürgischen Heide (Arachnida: Araneae). Mauritiana (Altenburg) 16: 521-525.
Weiss, I. & E. Rusdea. Validierung der endemischen Trichterspinne Histopona laeta (Kulczynski, 1897) mit Erstbeschreibung des Mämmchens (Arachnida: Araneae: Agelenidae). Mauritiana (Altenburg) 16: 515-520.
Weiss, I., C. Szinetár & F. Samu. Zur Taxonomie von Cryptodrassus hungaricus (Balogh, 1935) (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 16: 56-59.
Wesolowska, W. Taxonomic notes on jumping spiders from the Cape Verde Islands (Araneae: Salticidae). Bol. Mus. Mun. Funchal 50: 125-135.
Wunderlich, J. Beschreibung der ersten fossilen Spinnen der Unterfamilien Mysmeninae (Anapidae) und Erigoninae (Linyphiidae) im Dominikanischen Bernstein (Arachnida: Araneae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 108: 363-367.
Yang, X. F. & B. Q. Chai [=B. Q. Tsai]. A study on five wolf spiders of the group Pardosa nebulosa from China including a new species redescribetion [sic]. J. Hunan norm. Univ. (Nat. Sci.) 26: 60-64.
Yin, C. M. & X. J. Peng. Two new genera of the family Gnaphosidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from China. Life Sci. Research 2: 258-267.
Yoshida, H. (1998a). A new species of the genus Chrysso (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 105-107.
Yoshida, H. (1998b). A new species of the genus Ctenus (Araneae: Ctenidae) from the Yaeyama Islands, Japan and Taiwan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 117-120.
Yoshida, H., I. M. Tso & L. L. Severinghaus. Description of a new species of the genus Argyrodes (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Orchid Island, Taiwan, with notes on its ecology and behavior. Acta arachn. Tokyo 47: 1-5.
Yoward, P. Why arachnologists should be CADs (Computer Aided Designers). Newsl. Br. arachnol. Soc. 81: 10.
Żabka, M. & J. Prószyński. Middle European Euophrys C. L. Koch, 1834 (Araneae: Salticidae)-one, two or three genera? In Seldon, P. A. (ed.), Proceedings of the 17th European Colloquium of Arachnology, Edinburgh 1997. Edinburgh, pp. 115-120.
Zehethofer, K. Zum Vorkommen einer Wadicosa-Art in Sabah, Nord-Borneo (Araneae: Lycosidae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 85: 161-165.
Zhang, Y. J. Supplemental descriptions of two spiders (Arachnida: Araneae). Acta arachnol. sin. 7: 113-116.
Zhang, Y. J. & C. M. Yin. (1998a). A new species of the genus Oxytate from China (Araneae: Thomisidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 23: 6-8.
Zhang, Y. J. & C. M. Yin. (1998b). Six new species of the spiders of genus Clubiona from China (Araneae: Clubionidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 23: 9-17.
Zhu, M. S. Fauna Sinica: Arachnida: Araneae: Theridiidae. Science Press, Beijing, xi + 436 pp.
Zhu, M. S., D. X. Song & J. P. Kim. Two species of spiders of the genus Trachelas (Araneae: Corinnidae) from China. Korean J. syst. Zool. 14: 425-428.
-->
|1998-Zhu-Zhang-Gao={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S., W. S. Zhang & L. Gao}} (1998) A new species of Araneus (Araneae: Araneidae) from China. Acta arachnol. sin. 7: 30-32.

<!-- 1999 -->

|1999-Alderweireldt={{Ts.|Alderweireldt, M.}} (1999) A revision of Central African Trabea (Araneae, Lycosidae) with the description of two new species from Malawi and a redescription of T. purcelli. J. Arachnol. 27: 449-457.
|1999-Arnedo-Ribera={{Ts.|Arnedo, M. A. & C. Ribera}} (1999) Radiation in the genus Dysdera (Araneae, Dysderidae) in the Canary Islands: The island of Tenerife. J. Arachnol. 27: 604-662.
<!--
Askins, M. Zodarion fuscum (Simon, 1870): A spider new to Britain. Newsl. Br. arachnol. Soc. 86: 11.
Biswas, V. Description of two new species of jumping spiders (Araneae: Salticidae) of the genera Phidippus Koch and Plexippus Koch from Bangladesh. Entomon 24: 331-337.
Biswas, V. & A. Begum. Jumping spiders of Bangladesh: genus Marpissa Koch (Araneae: Salticidae). Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(2): 133-138.
Bosmans, R. The genera Agroeca, Agraecina, Apostenus and Scotina in the Maghreb countries (Araneae: Liocranidae). Bull. Inst. R. Sci. nat. Belg. 69: 25-34.
Bosmans, R. & M. Janssen. The ground spider genus Setaphis in the Maghreb countries (Araneae Gnaphosidae). Bull. Annls Soc. r. ent. Belg. 155: 82-90.
Bosmans, R. & J. Van Keer. The genus Enoplognatha Pavesi, 1880 in the Mediterranean region (Araneae: Theridiidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 209-241.
Bosselaers, J. A new Uroctea from the Jordan desert (Araneae: Oecobiidae). Phegea 27: 103-113.
Braul, A., L. A. Bertoncello & A. A. Lise. Descrição do macho de Araneus horizonte Levi, 1991 (Araneae, Araneidae). Biociências 8: 123-126.
Braul, A. & A. A. Lise. Description of Rudra dagostinae sp. n. and Rudra brescoviti sp. n., from Brazil (Araneae, Salticidae). Stud. neotrop. Fauna Environm. 34: 10-15.
Brescovit, A. D. (1999a). Revisão das aranhas do gênero Lupettiana Brescovit (Araneae, Anyphaenidae, Anyphaeninae). Revta bras. Zool. 16(Supl. 2): 63-76.
Brescovit, A. D. (1999b). Revisão das aranhas do gênero Jessica Brescovit (Araneae, Anyphaenidae, Anyphaeninae). Revta bras. Ent. 43: 249-269.
Brescovit, A. D. & H. Höfer. Four new species of litter inhabiting Scytodes spiders (Araneae, Scytodidae) from Amazonia. Stud. neotrop. Fauna Environm. 34: 105-113.
-->
|1999-Chen-Song={{Ts.|Chen, J. & D. X. Song} (1999) On some species of the genus Arctosa from China (Araneae: Lycosidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 24: 138-143.
|1999-Chen-Yin={{Ts.|Chen, J. I. & C. M. Yin}} (1999}} A new species of the genus Neriene from Yunnan, China (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 8: 65-67.
|1999-Chida-Tanikawa={{Ts.|Chida, T. & A. Tanikawa}} (1999) A new species of the spider genus Argyrodes (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan previously misidentified with A. fissifrons. Acta arachn. Tokyo 48: 31-36.
|1999-Danilov={{Ts.|Danilov, S. N.}} (1999) The spider family Liocranidae in Siberia and Far East (Aranei). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 313-317.
|1999-Davies={{Ts.|Davies, V. T.}} (1999) Carbinea, a new spider genus from north Queensland, Australia (Araneae, Amaurobioidea, Kababininae). J. Arachnol. 27: 25-36.
<!--
Dimitrov, D. The spider fauna of the Strandzha Mountain (south-east Bulgaria) I. Faunistic data and taxonomic remarks (Arachnida: Araneae). Acta. zool. bulg. 51(2-3): 15-26.
Dimitrov, D. & S. Lazarov. Two new species of Harpactea from Bulgaria (Araneae: Dysderidae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 86: 127-129.
Dondale, C. D. Revision of the groenlandica subgroup of the genus Pardosa (Araneae, Lycosidae). J. Arachnol. 27: 435-448.
Edwards, G. B. (1999a). The genus Attidops (Araneae, Salticidae). J. Arachnol. 27: 7-15.
Edwards, G. B. (1999b). Corythalia canosa (Araneae: Salticidae) reassigned to Anasaitis. Insecta Mundi 13: 10.
Edwards, R. L. A new Disembolus (Araneae, Linyphiidae) from Cape Cod, Massachusetts and Long Island, New York. J. Arachnol. 27: 16-18.
Efimik, V. E. A review of the spider genus Tibellus Simon, 1875 of the East Palearctic (Aranei: Philodromidae). Arthropoda Selecta 8: 103-124.
Esyunin, S. L. & V. E. Efimik. Remarks on the Ural spider fauna, 9. New data on the Ural species of the genus Lepthyphantes Menge, 1866 (s.l.) (Aranei: Linyphiidae). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 227-232.
Esyunin, S. L., V. E. Efimik & N. S. Mazura. Remarks on the Ural spider fauna, 10. New records of spider species (Aranei). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 319-327.
Fei, R. I., S. Y. Xing, T. Liang & Q. A. Xia. One new record genus and one new record species of Erigoninae from China. J. Northeast Normal Univ. 2(2): 81-83.
Finch, O.-D. Erstnachweis von Dipoena nigroreticulata (Simon, 1879) in Deutschland (Araneae, Theridiidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 18: 66-70.
Forster, R. R. & L. Forster. Spiders of New Zealand and their Worldwide Kin. Univ. Otago Press, vii+270 pp.
Gajbe, U. A. Studies on some spiders of the family Oxyopidae (Araneae: Arachnida) from India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(3): 31-79.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999a). Two new species of Peucetia Thorell (Araneae: Oxyopidae) from Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, India. Geobios New Reports 18: 9-12.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999b). Two new species of Oxyopes Latreille (Araneae: Oxyopidae) from Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, India. Geobios New Reports 18: 13-16.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999c). A new species of spider of the genus Tmarus Simon (Araneae: Thomisidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(3): 141-143.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999d). On two new species of spiders of the genus Xysticus Koch (Araneae: Thomisidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(3): 145-148.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999e). A new species of spider of the genus Tibellus Simon (Araneare [sic]: Philodromidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(3): 191-193.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999f). A new species of spider of the genus Philodromus Walckenaer (Araneae: Philodromidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(3): 195-197.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999g). A new species of spider of the genus Thanatus Koch (Araneae: Philodromidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(3): 199-201.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999h). On three new species of spiders of the genus Hippasa Simon (Araneae: Lycosidae) from Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(4): 23-28.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999i). A new Cyrtophora spider (Araneae: Araneidae) from Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(4): 29-31.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999j). A new species of spider of the genus Philodromus Walckenaer (Araneae: Philodromidae) from Madhya Pradesh. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(4): 91-93.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999k). A new species of spider of the genus Pardosa Koch (Araneae: Lycosidae) from Madhya Pradesh. Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(4): 95-97.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (1999l). New species of spider of the genus Sergiolus Simon from Madhya Pradesh (family: Gnaphosidae). Rec. zool. Surv. India 97(4): 99-101.
Gajdos, P. & S. Pekár. Dictyna szaboi Chyzer, a cribellate spider recently found in Slovakia (Araneae: Dictynidae). Acta Univ. Carolinae Biol. 43: 3-5.
Galiano, M. E. (1999a). Description of Yacuitella, new genus (Araneae, Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 158-160.
Galiano, M. E. (1999b). Descripción de Akela ruricola, nueva especies (Araneae, Salticidae). Physis B. Aires (C) 55: 1-4.
Gallon, R. C. Appendage deformity in an African theraphosid spider: Coelogenium pillansi Purcell, 1902. Newsl. Br. arachnol. Soc. 85: 8.
Gasparo, F. (1999a). Stalita comottii n. sp., un nuovo ragno cavernicolo della Dalmazia centrale (Araneae, Dysderidae). Atti Memorie Commiss. Grotte "E. Boegan" 36: 17-25.
Gasparo, F. (1999b). Ridescrizione di Stalita patrizii Roewer, 1956, specie tipo del nuovo genere Sardostalita (Araneae, Dysderidae). Boll. Mus. reg. Sci. nat. Torino 16: 59-76.
Gasparo, F. (1999c). Descrizione di Harpactea zoiai n. sp. del Peloponneso meridionale (Araneae, Dysderidae). Boll. Mus. reg. Sci. nat. Torino 16: 303-308.
Gonzaga, M. de O. & A. J. dos Santos. The females of Anelosimus dubiosus and Anelosimus jabaquara (Araneae, Theridiidae). J. Arachnol. 27: 432-434.
-->
|1999-González-Sponga={{Ts.|González-Sponga, M. A.}} (1999) Aracnidos de Venezuela. Ocho especies nuevas del genero Priscula y descripcion de Priscula venezuelana Simon, 1893 (Arachnida: Araneae: Pholcidae). Bol. Acad. Cienc. Fís. nat. 54: 123-168.
<!--
Griswold, C. E., J. A. Coddington, N. I. Platnick & R. R. Forster. Towards a phylogeny of entelegyne spiders (Araneae, Araneomorphae, Entelegynae). J. Arachnol. 27: 53-63.
Griswold, C. E., C. L. Long & G. Hormiga. A new spider of the genus Pimoa from Gaoligong Mountains, Yunnan, China (Araneae, Araneoidea, Pimoidae). Acta Botanica Yunnanica, Suppl. 11: 91-97.
Grostal, P. Five species of kleptobiotic Argyrodes Simon (Theridiidae: Araneae) from eastern Australia: descriptions and ecology with special reference to southeastern Queensland. Mem. Qd Mus. 43: 621-638.
He, S. & J. L. Hu. (1999a). A new species of the genus Oxytate from Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China (Araneae: Thomisidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 8: 30-31.
He, S. & J. L. Hu. (1999b). A new species of the genus Pseudicius from Yunnan Province, China (Araneae: Salticidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 8: 32-33.
He, S. & J. L. Hu. (1999c). A new species of the genus Lysiteles from Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China (Araneae: Thomisidae). Animal Sci. veterinary Med. 16(4): 8-9.
Hirst, D. B. Revision of Typostola (Araneae: Heteropodidae) in Australasia. Mem. Qd Mus. 43: 639-648.
Horak, P. & C. Kropf. Landeskundlich bedeutsame Spinnenfunde in der Steiermark (Arachnida: Araneae). Mitt. naturwiss. Ver. Steiermark 129: 253-268.
-->
|1999-Huber-Deeleman-Reinhold-Pérez={{Ts.|Huber, B. A., C. L. Deeleman-Reinhold & A. Pérez G.}} (1999) The spider genus Crossopriza (Araneae, Pholcidae) in the New World. Am. Mus. Novit. 3262: 1-10.
|1999a-Irie={{Ts.|Irie, T.}} (1999) A new species of the genus Leptopholcus (Araneae: Pholcidae) from the Yaeyama Islands, Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 48: 37-39.
|1999b-Irie={{Ts.|Irie, T.}} (1999) A new species of the genus Nesticus (Araneae: Nesticidae) found in a tuff cave from Oita Prefecture in Kyushu, Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 48: 139-142.
<!--
Jäger, P. (1999a). Sparassidae - the valid scientific name for the huntsman spiders (Arachnida: Araneae). Arachnol. Mitt. 17: 1-10.
Jäger, P. (1999b). Sinopoda, a new genus of Heteropodinae (Araneae, Sparassidae) from Asia. J. Arachnol. 27: 19-24.
-->
|1999-Jastrzebski={{Ts.|Jastrzebski, P.}} (1999) Salticidae from the Himalaya: The genus Carrhotus Thorell 1891 (Araneae, Salticidae). Senckenberg. biol. 79: 1-9.
|1999-Jocqué={{Ts.|Jocqué, R.}} (1999) The new genera Procydrela and Rotundrela, sister taxa for Storenomorphinae and Cydrelinae (Araneae: Zodariidae). Ent. scand. 30: 225-240.
<!--
Kamura, T. Spiders of the genus Zelotes (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from Ryukyu Islands, southwest Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 48: 79-91.
Kamura, T., K.-I. Yodoe & M. Saito. Spider fauna in the Hiikawa Riversides, Shimane Prefecture: Results of a survey in 1997. Bull. Hoshizaki Green Found. 3: 39-56.
Kim, J. P. (1999a). Taxonomic study of P. lyrifera and P. isago on the genus Pardosa (Araneae: Lycosidae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 15(1): 1-6.
Kim, J. P. (1999b). Study of poisonous spiders from China. Korean Arachnol. 15(1): 19-26.
Kim, J. P., Y. H. Ji & Y. B. Lee. A revisional study of the Korean spiders, family Atypidae (Thorell, 1870) (Arachnida: Araneae). Korean Arachnol. 15(2): 115-136.
Kim, J. P., S. D. Kim & Y. B. Lee. A revisional study of the Korean spiders, family Tetragnathidae Menge, 1866 (Arachnida: Araneae). Korean Arachnol. 15(2): 41-100.
Kim, J. P. & M. S. Lee. A revisional study of the Korean spiders, family Uloboridae (Thorell, 1869) (Arachnida: Araneae). Korean Arachnol. 15(2): 1-30.
Kim, J. P., Y. S. Yoo & Y. B. Lee. A newly recorded species of the genus Nesticella (Aranea, Nesticidae) in Korea. Korean J. syst. Zool. 15: 183-187.
Knoflach, B. The comb-footed spider genera Neottiura and Coleosoma in Europe (Araneaem Theridiidae). Mitt. schweiz. ent. Ges. 72: 341-371.
Kronestedt, T. A new species in the Pardosa lugubris group from central Europe (Arachnida, Araneae, Lycosidae). Spixiana 22: 1-11.
Krumpalova, Z. A case of gynandromorph spider (Araneae, Liocranidae) in Slovakia. Rev. arachnol. 13: 61-67.
Kumari, M. & O. P. Mittal. A new species of crab spiders of the genus Pistius (Araneae: Thomisidae) from India. Res. Bull. Panjab Univ. 48: 17-19.
Kundu, M., V. Biswas & D. Raychaudhuri. New huntsman spiders (Heteropodidae: Araneae) from Buxa Tiger Reserve, Jalpaiguri, West Bengal. J. Bombay nat. Hist. Soc. 96: 98-105.
Levi, H. W. The Neotropical and Mexican Orb Weavers of the genera Cyclosa and Allocyclosa (Araneae: Araneidae). Bull. Mus. comp. Zool. Harv. 155: 299-379.
Levy, G. (1999a). The lynx and nursery-web spider families in Israel (Araneae, Oxyopidae and Pisauridae). Zoosystema 21: 29-64.
Levy, G. (1999b). New thomisid and philodromid spiders (Araneae) from southern Israel. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 185-190.
Levy, G. (1999c). Spiders of the genera Anagraphis and Talanites (Araneae, Gnaphosidae) from Israel. Israel J. Zool. 45: 215-225.
Levy, G. (1999d). Spiders of six uncommon drassodine genera (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from Israel. Israel J. Zool. 45: 427-452.
Liang, S. P., X. J. Peng, R. H. Huang & P. Chen. Biochemical identification of Selenocosmia hainana sp. nov. from south China (Araneae, Theraphosidae). Life Sci. Res. 3: 299-303.
Lie, W. L., D. X. Song & M. S. Zhu. A new record of spider of the genus Ozyptila from China (Araneae: Thomisidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 8: 68-69.
Locht, A., M. Yáñez & I. Vázquez. Distribution and natural history of Mexican species of Brachypelma and Brachypelmides (Theraphosidae, Theraphosinae) with morphological evidence for their synonymy. J. Arachnol. 27: 196-200.
Logunov, D. V. (1999a). Redefinition of the genus Habrocestoides Prószyński, 1992, with establishment of a new genus, Chinattus gen n. (Araneae: Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 139-149.
Logunov, D. V. (1999b). Two new jumping spider species from the Caucasus (Aranei: Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 301-303.
Logunov, D. V. (1999c). Redefinition of the genera Marpissa C. L. Koch, 1846 and Mendoza Peckham & Peckham, 1894 in the scope of the Holarctic fauna (Araneae, Salticidae). Rev. arachnol. 13: 25-60.
Logunov, D. V. & B. Cutler. Revision of the genus Paramarpissa F. O. P.-Cambridge, 1901 (Araneae, Salticidae). J. nat. Hist. 33: 1217-1236.
Logunov, D. V. & Y. M. Marusik. (1999a). A brief review of the genus Chalcoscirtus Bertkau, 1880 in the faunas of Central Asia and the Caucasus (Aranei: Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 205-226.
Logunov, D. V. & Y. M. Marusik. (1999b). New species and new records of the jumping spiders from the Russian Far East (Araneae, Salticidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 48: 23-29.
Logunov, D. V., Y. M. Marusik & S. Y. Rakov. A review of the genus Pellenes in the fauna of Central Asia and the Caucasus (Araneae, Salticidae). J. nat. Hist. 33: 89-148.
Lotz, L. N. & A. S. Dippenaar-Schoeman. Cheiramiona, a new Afrotropical spider genus (Araneae: Miturgidae: Eutichurinae). Navors. nas. Mus., Bloemfontein 15: 29-44.
Marusik, Y. M. & D. V. Logunov. On the spiders (Aranei) collected in central Mongolia during a joint American-Mongolian-Russian expedition in 1997. Arthropoda Selecta 7: 233-254.
Marusik, Y. M. & M. I. Saaristo. Review of East Palearctic species of the genus Minicia Thorell, 1875 with descriptions of two new genera (Aranei: Linyphiidae: Erigoninae). Arthropoda Selecta 8: 125-130.
Melic, A., E. M. Hernández & I. P. Moreno. Lista preliminar de las arañas de La Rioja, España (Arachnida: Araneae). Zubía Monográfico 11: 81-91.
Merrett, P. & R. A. Stevens. The male of Nothophantes horridus Merrett & Stevens (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 129-130.
Metzner, H. Die Springspinnen (Araneae, Salticidae) Griechenlands. Andrias 14: 1-279.
Milasowszky, N., J. Buchar & K. P. Zulka. Morphological variation in Pardosa maisa Hippa & Mannila 1982 (Araneae, Lycosidae). Senckenberg. biol. 79: 11-18.
Miller, J. A. Revision and cladistic analysis of the erigonine spider genus Sisicottus (Araneae, Linyphiiae, Erigoninae). J. Arachnol. 27: 553-603.
Mushtaq, S. & A. Qadar. Three new species of the genus Oxyopes (Araneae: Oxyopidae) from Pakistan. Pakistan J. Zool. 31: 255-261.
Muster, C. Fünf für Deutschland neue Spinnentiere aus dem bayerischen Alpenraum (Arachnida: Araneae, Opiliones). Ber. nat.-med.. Verein Innsbruck 86: 149-158.
Namkung, J. & S. T. Kim. Two orb weavers of the genus Neoscona (Araneae: Araneidae) from Korea. Korean J. applied Ent. 38: 213-216.
Nishikawa, Y. A new eyeless agelenid spider from a limestone cave in Guangxi, south China. J. speleol. Soc. Japan 24: 23-26.
Oliger, T. I. A new Atypus from the Russian Far East (Aranei: Atypidae). Arthropoda Selecta 7: 201-204.
-->
|1999-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (1999) Spiders of the genus Heptathela (Araneae, Liphistiidae) from Vietnam, with notes on their natural history. J. Arachnol. 27: 37-43.
<!--
Ovtchinnikov, S. V. On the supraspecific systematics of the subfamily Coelotinae (Araneae, Amaurobiidae) in the former USSR fauna. Tethys ent. Res. 1: 63-80.
Pekár, S. Euophrys aperta Miller, 1971, a junior synonym of Talavera thorelli (Kulczyński, 1891) (Arachnida: Araneae: Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 153-154.
Pekár, S., J. Svaton & V. Thomka. Reconsideration of Lepthyphantes montanus Kulczyńskim 1898 and Lepthyphantes milleri Starega, 1972 (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 254-256.
Peng, X. J. A new name of Coelotes ovatus Peng et Wang, 1997 (Araneae: Agelenidae). Life Sci. Res. 3: 285.
Peng, X. J., M. X. Liu & J. P. Kim. A new species of the genus Ocrisiona (Araneae: Salticidae) from China. Korean J. Soil Zool. 4: 19-21.
-->
|1999-Pérez-Huber={{Ts.|Pérez G., A. & B. A. Huber.}} (1999) Metagonia debrasi n. sp. the first species of the genus Metagonia Simon in Cuba (Pholcidae, Araneae). Rev. arachnol. 13: 69-73.
<!--
Peters, H.-J. Handelt es sich bei Selenocosmia huwena Wang, Peng & Xie, 1993, die in der chinesischen Spinnengift-Forschung Verwendung findet, wirklich um eine Selenocosmia oder um Haplopelma schmidti Von Wirth, 1991? Arachnol. Mag. 7(7/8): 7-13.
Pirchegger, H. & K. Thaler. Zur Unterscheidung der Männchen von Pardosa blanda (C. L. Koch) und P. torrentum Simon (Araneae, Lycosidae). Mitt. schweiz. ent. Ges. 72: 47-53.
Platnick, N. I. A revision of the Appalachina spider genus Liocranoides (Araneae: Tengellidae). Am. Mus. Novit. 3285: 1-13.
-->
|1999-Platnick-Grismado-Ramírez={{Ts.|Platnick, N. I., C. J. Grismado & M. J. Ramírez.}} (1999) On the genera of the spider subfamily Otiothopinae (Araneae, Palpimanidae). Am. Mus. Novit. 3257: 1-25.
<!--
Platnick, N. I. & T. R. Prentice. A new species of the spider genus Zelotes (Araneae, Gnaphosidae) from California. J. Arachnol. 27: 672-674.
Prószyński, J. Description of Rafalus gen. n. (Aranei: Salticidae), with special reference to the Near East fauna. Arthropoda Selecta 8: 89-101.
Ramírez, M. J. New species and cladistic reanalysis of the spider genus Monapia (Araneae, Anyphaenidae, Amaurobioidinae). J. Arachnol. 27: 415-431.
Ramírez, M. J. & A. González. New or little-known species of the genus Echinotheridion Levi (Araneae, Theridiidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 195-198.
-->
|1999-Raven={{Ts.|Raven, R. J.}} (1999) Review of the mygalomorph genus Melloina Brignoli (Paratropididae: Araneae). Mem. Qd Mus. 43: 819-825.
|1999-Rix={{Ts.|Rix, M. G.}} (1999) A new genus and species of ant-mimicking jumping spider (Arameae: Salticidae) from southeast Queensland, with notes on its biology. Mem. Qd Mus. 43: 827-832.
|1999-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (1999) An arachnological excursion to the granitic Seychelles, 1-26th January 1999. Arachnid species lists for Silhouette, Cousine & Mahé. Phelsuma 7(Suppl. A): 1-12.
<!--
Saaristo, M. I. & A. V. Tanasevitch. Reclassification of the mughi-group of the genus Lepthyphantes Menge, 1866 (sensu lato) (Araneae: Linyphiidae: Micronetinae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 86: 139-147.
Sacher, P. & H. Metzner. Heliophanus lineiventris Simon, 1868, neu für Deutschland (Araneae, Salticidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 18: 38-44.
Schmidt, G. (1999a). Abbildung der Spermathek von Vitalius rondoniensis (Mello-Leitão, 1923) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 7(3/4): 13.
Schmidt, G. (1999b). Selenobrachys philippinus gen. et sp. n. (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Selenocosmiinae), eine neue Theraphosidae sp. von der Insel Negros (Philippinen). Arachnol. Mag. 7(5/6): 1-13.
Schmidt, G. (1999c). Chilocosmia peerboomi spec. n., a new theraphosid spider from the island of Negros (Philippines) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Selenocosmiinae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 109: 280-286 (corrections, 391-392).
Schmidt, G. (1999d). Neuer Name für Polyspina schultzei Schmidt, 1994 (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Emunophorinae. Arachnol. Mag. 7(7/8): 14.
Schmidt, G. (1999e). Spinnen von der kapverdischen Inseln Boavista, Ilheu do Sal Rei und Maio (Araneae). Arachnol. Mag. 7(9/10): 1-15.
Schmidt, G. (1999f). Bestimmungsschlüssel für die Gattungen der argentinischen Vogelspinnen und kommentierte Liste der argentinischen Vogelspinnenarten (Arachnida: Araneae: Mygalomorphae: Theraphosidae. Arachnol. Mag. 7(11/12): 1-17.
Schmidt, G. & D. Antonelli. Das Männchen von Thrixopelma pruriens Schmidt 1998 (Arachnida: Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 109: 20-26.
Sissom, W. D., W. B. Peck & J. C. Cokendolpher. New records of wandering spiders from Texas, with a description of the male of Ctenus valverdiensis (Araneae: Ctenidae). Ent. News 110: 260-266.
Snazell, R., L. J. Jonsson & J. A. Stewart. Neon robustus Lohmander (Araneae: Salticidae), a fennoscandian spider found in Scotland and Ireland. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 251-254.
-->
|1999-Song-Zhu-Chen={{Ts.|Song, D. X., M. S. Zhu & J. Chen.}} (1999) The Spiders of China. Hebei Sci. Technol. Publ. House, Shijiazhuang, 640 pp.
<!--
Szinetár, C., Z. Kenyeres, and H. Kovács. Adatok a Balaton-felvidék néhány településének épületlakó pókfaunájához. Folia Mus. hist.-nat. Bakonyiensis 14: 159-170.
Tang, G. M., Y. H. Bao, C. M. Yin & J. P. Kim. One new species of the genus Oxytate and the male supplement of Tibellus zhui from China (Arachnida: Araneae). Korean Arachnol. 15(1): 27-31.
Tang, G. M., J. P. Kim & D. X. Song. Discovery of the male spider of Zoropsis pekingensis (Araneae: Zoropsidae). Korean Arachnol. 15(1): 37-40.
Tang, G. M., Oldemtu, Y. W. Zhao & D. X. Song. A new species of the genus Drassodes from Helanshan, Inner Mongolia, China (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 24: 27-29.
Tanikawa, A. (1999a). Japanese spiders of the genus Eriovixia (Araneae: Araneidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 48: 41-48.
Tanikawa, A. (1999b). Japanese spiders of the genus Hersilia (Araneae: Hersiliidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 48: 131-137.
Tesmoingt, M. (1999a). Une nouvelle espece d'Avicularia du Bresil: Description d'Avicularia braunshauseni (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Aviculariinae). Arachnides 43: 14-16.
Tesmoingt, M. (1999b). Description de Avicularia geroldi n. sp. (Ile de Santana-Bresil) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Aviculariinae). Arachnides 43: 17-20.
Tesmoingt, M. (1999c). Description de Lasiodorides rolinii n. sp. du Perou (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Theraphosinae). Arachnides 43: 21-26.
Thaler, K. (1999a). Troglohyphantes typhlonetiformis Absolon et Kratochvil - neu für Österreich (Arachnida, Araneae, Linyphiidae). Carinthia II 189: 467-469.
Thaler, K. (1999b). Heterolinyphia secunda n. sp. aus Bhutan (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Linzer biol. Beitr. 31/2: 987-991.
Thaler, K. & F. Gasparo. Zur Genitalmorphologie von Typhlonyphia reimoseri Kratochvíl, 1936 (Arachnida: Araneae, Linyphiidae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 86: 159-164.
Thomas, H. Nemesia simoni Cambridge: une petite mygale discrète mais commune en Aquitaine. Bull. Soc. linn. Bordeaux 27: 33-40.
Vol, F. (1999a). A propos d'une spermatheque inhabituelle. Arachnides 42: 1-13.
Vol, F. (1999b). Description d'une nouvelle espece de Cyriocosmus Simon 1903 (Araneae, Theraphosidae), Cyriocosmus leetzi sp. n. de Colombie. Arachnides 43: 2-10.
Wang, X. P., J. C. Ran & H. M. Chen. A new species of Mallinella from China (Araneae, Zodariidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 193-194.
Wesolowska, W. A revision of the spider genus Menemerus in Africa (Araneae: Salticidae). Genus 10: 251-353.
Wesolowska, W. & M. S. Cumming. The first termitivorous jumping spider (Araneae: Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 204-208.
-->
|1999a-Wunderlich={{Ts.|Wunderlich, J.}} (1999) Liocranoeca-eine bisher unbekannte Gattung der Feldspinnen aus Europa und Nordamerika (Arachnida: Araneae: Liocranidae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 109: 67-70.
|1999b-Wunderlich={{Ts.|Wunderlich, J.}} (1999) Eine bisher unbekannte cavernicole Art der Zitterspinnen von La Palma, Kanarische Inseln (Arachnida: Araneae: Pholcidae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 109: 71-73.
|1999c-Wunderlich={{Ts.|Wunderlich, J.}} (1999) Description of two new species of the genus Otiothops Mcleay [sic] from South America (Arachnida: Araneae: Palpimanidae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 109: 213-216.
<!--
Yin, C. M., Y. H. Bao & Y. J. Zhang. Four species of the genus Zelotes (Araneae, Gnaphosidae) from southern China. Acta arachnol. sin. 8: 24-28.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng, L. S. Gong & J. P. Kim. One new species of the genus Ozyptila from China (Araneae: Thomisidae). Korean Arachnol. 15(1): 33-36.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng & J. P. Kim. Three new species of the genus Philodromus from China (Araneae: Philodromidae). Korean J. biol. Sci. 3: 355-358.
Yoshida, H. Two species of the genus Theridion (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 48: 127-130.
Żabka, M. Salticidae (Arachnida: Araneae) of Oriental, Australian and Pacific regions, XII. Marengo Peckham & Peckham 1892 from Papua New Guinea. Mem. Qd Mus. 43: 893-905.
Zhang, Y. J. & C. M. Yin. Two new species of the genus Cheiracanthium from China with notes on male spiders of two species (Araneae: Clubionidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 24: 285-290.
-->
|1999-Zhu-An={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S. & R. Y. An.}} (1999) One new species of the spider genus Clubiona (Clubionidae: Araneae) from China. J. Hebei norm. Univ. (nat. Sci.) 23: 541-545.
|1999-Zhu-Chen-Song={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S., H. M. Chen, and D. X. Song.}} (1999) A new species of the genus Anahita (Araneae: Ctenidae) from China. In The China Zoological Society: Zoological Studies in China. Chinese Forestry Publishing House, Beijing, pp. 210-212.
|1999-Zhu-Zhang-Zhang={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S., F. Zhang & J. X. Zhang.}} (1999) A new mygalomorph spider (Nemesiidae: Raveniola) from China. J. Hubei Univ. 19: 366-368.
|1999-Zonstein-Ovtchinnikov={{Ts.|Zonstein, S. L. & S. V. Ovtchinnikov.}} (1999) A new Central Asian species of the spider genus Lachesana Strand, 1932 (Araneae, Zodariidae: Lachesaninae). Tethys entomol. Res. 1: 59-62.
|1999-Zujko-Miller={{Ts.|Zujko-Miller, J.}} (1999) On the phylogenetic relationships of Sisicottus hibernus (Araneae, Linyphiidae, Erigoninae). J. Arachnol. 27: 44-52.

<!--
2000
Aakra, K. (2000a). New records of spiders (Araneae) from Norway with notes on epigynal characters of Philodromus fuscomarginatus (De Geer) (Philodromidae) and Araneus sturmi (Hahn) (Araneidae). Norw. J. Entomol. 47: 77-88.
Aakra, K. (2000b). Agyneta mossica (Schikora, 1993) (Araneae, Linyphiidae) in Norway. Norw. J. Entomol. 47: 95-99.
Aakra, K. (2000c). Noteworthy records of spiders (Araneae) from central regions of Norway. Norw. J. Entomol. 47: 153-162.
Aakra, K., A. Bretten, and O. Frengen. Spiders (Araneae) new to Norway. Norw. J. Entomol. 47: 149-152.
Aakra, K., O. Hanssen & F. Ødegaard. A collection of spiders (Araneae) from palsa bogs in the vicinity of Vardø, northern Norway. Fauna norv. 20: 43-47.
-->
|2000-Alayón={{Ts.|Alayón G., G.}} (2000) Las arañas endémicas de Cuba (Arachnida: Araneae). Revta Ibérica Aracnol. 2: 1-48.
<!--
Alicata, P. & T. Cantarella. I salticidi di Sicilia: stato della conoscenza e descrizione di due nuove specie (Araneae Salticidae). Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 78: 485-498.
Arnedo, M. A., P. Oromí & C. Ribera. Systematics of the genus Dysdera (Araneae, Dysderidae) in the eastern Canary Islands. J. Arachnol. 28: 261-292.
Baehr, B. & R. Jocqué. Revisions of genera in the Asteron-complex (Araneae: Zodariidae). The new genera Cavasteron and Minasteron. Rec. West Aust. Mus. 20: 1-30.
Baert, L. & J.-P. Maelfait. Checklist of the described spider species of the Galápagos archipelago (Araneae). Bull. Inst. roy. Sci. nat. Belg. (Ent.) 70: 243-245.
Bao, Y. H., C. M. Yin & H. M. Yan. A new species of the genus Heteropoda from south China (Araneae: Heteropodidae). Life Sci. Res. 4: 278-280.
Barrion, A. T. A new species of the genus Bavia Simon, 1877 (Araneae: Salticidae) from the highlands of Sagada, Mountain Province, Luzon Island, Philippines. Philipp. Ent. 14: 53-60.
Bell, D. & P. Merrett. Ozyptila pullata (Thorell, 1875), a thomisid spider new to Britain (Araneae: Thomisidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 391-392.
Benjamin, S. P. Epidius parvati sp. n., a new species of the genus Epidius from Sri Lanka (Araneae: Thomisidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 284-288.
Benjamin, S. P. & R. Jocqué. Two new species of the genus Suffasia from Sri Lanka (Araneae: Zodariidae). Rev. suisse Zool. 107: 97-106.
Bertani, R. Male palpal bulbs and homologous features in Theraphosinae (Araneae, Theraphosidae). J. Arachnol. 28: 29-42.
-->
|2000-Bertolani-Grimaldi={{Ts.|Bertolani, R.}}; {{Ts.|Grimaldi, D.}} (2000) A new eutardigrade (Tardigrada: Milnesiidae) in amber from the Upper Cretaceous (Turonian) of New Jersey. Pp. 103-110 ''in'' {{aut|Grimaldi, D.}} (ed.), ''Studies on fossils in amber, with particular reference to the Cretaceous of New Jersey''. Backhuys Publishers, Leiden. [http://www.extrapersonality.com/Tardigrade%20Found%20in%20Amber.pdf PDF]
<!--
Biswas, V. & D. Raychaudhuri. Sac spiders of Bangladesh-II: Genera Castianeira Keyserling, Sphingius Thorell and Trachelas Koch (Araneae: Clubionidae). Rec. zool. Surv. India 98: 131-139.
Blest, A. D. & C. J. Vink. New Zealand spiders: Stiphidiidae. Rec. Canterbury Mus. 13(Suppl.): 1-27.
Bonaldo, A. B. Taxonomia da subfamília Corinninae (Araneae, Corinnidae) nas regiões Neotropica e Neárctica. Iheringia (Zool.) 89: 3-148.
Bosmans, R. & T. Blick. Contribution to the knowledge of the genus Micaria in the West-palearctic region, with description of the new genus Arboricaria and three new species (Araneae Gnaphosidae). Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 78: 443-476.
Bosselaers, J. & R. Jocqué. (2000a). Hortipes, a huge genus of tiny Afrotropical spiders (Araneae, Liocranidae). Bull. Am. Mus. nat. Hist. 256: 1-108.
Bosselaers, J. & R. Jocqué. (2000b). Studies in Corinnidae: transfer of four genera and description of the female of Lessertina mutica Lawrence 1942. Trop. Zool. 13: 305-325.
Brescovit, A. D. & C. A. Rheims. On the synanthropic species of the genus Scytodes Latreille (Araneae, Scytodidae) of Brazil, with synonymies and records of these species in other Neotropical countries. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 320-330.
Brescovit, A. D., J. Raizer & M. E. C. Amaral. Descriptions and notes on the genus Paradossenus in the Neotropical region (Araneae, Trechaleidae). J. Arachnol. 28: 7-15.
Butt, A. & M. A. Beg. Some new species of Marpissa (Salticidae) spiders from Pakistan. Pakistan J. Zool. 32: 75-79.
Cardoso, P. Description of the supposed male Nemesia hispanica L. Koch in Ausserer, 1871 (Araneae: Nemesiidae). Ekológia (Bratislava) 19(Suppl. 3): 31-36.
Chen, H. M., L. Gao & M. S. Zhu. Two new species of the genus Leptoneta (Araneae: Leptonetidae) from China. Acta arachnol. sin. 9: 10-13.
Chen, J., D. X. Song & J. C. Gao. Two new species of the genus Alopecosa Simon (Araneae: Lycosidae) from Inner Mongolia, China. Zool. Stud. 39: 133-137.
Chen, J. A. & S. Q. Li. On Neriene strandia (Blauvelt, 1936) (Araneae Linyphiidae). J. Hubei Univ. (nat. Sci. Edit.) 22: 192-194.
Chen, J. A. & C. M. Yin. On five species of linyphiid spiders from Hunan, China (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 9: 86-93.
Compagnucci, L. A. & M. J. Ramírez. A new species of the spider genus Naevius Roth from Argentina (Araneae, Amaurobiidae, Macrobuninae). Stud. neotrop. Fauna Environm. 35: 203-207.
Corronca, J. A. Two new species of Anyphops Benoit, 1968 and description of the male of A. amatolae (Lawrence, 1940) (Aranei: Selenopidae). Arthropda Selecta 9: 51-54.
Costa, F. G., F. Pérez-Miles & S. Corte. Which spermatheca is inseminated by each palp in Theraphosidae spiders?: A study of Oligoxystre argentinensis (Ischnocolinae). J. Arachnol. 28: 131-132.
Danilov, S. N. New data on the spiders of the family Dictynidae (Araneae) from Siberia. Ekológia (Bratislava) 19(Suppl. 3): 37-44.
Davies, V. T. & C. L. Lambkin. (2000a). Malarina, a new spider genus (Araneae: Amaurobioidea: Kababinae) from the wet tropics of Queensland, Australia. Mem. Qd Mus. 45: 273-283.
Davies, V. T. & C. L. Lambkin. (2000b). Wabua, a new spider genus (Araneae: Amaurobioidea: Kababinae) from north Queensland, Australia. Mem. Qd Mus. 46: 129-147.
Di Franco, F. & P. Pantini. Gnaphosidae dell'Isola di Capraia (Arcipelago Toscano) (Araneae). Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 78: 477-484.
Emerit, M. Contribution à l'étude des aranéides de Madagascar et des Comores: la sous-famille des Cyrtarachninae (Araneae, Araneidae). Rev. arachnol. 13: 145-162.
Esyunin, S. L. & V. E. Efimik. A review of the genus Devade (Aranei, Dictynidae) from fauna of central Asia and southern Russia. Zool. Zhur. 79: 679-685.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (2000a). A new species of spider of the genus Philodromus Walckenaer (Araneae: Philodromidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 98: 51-53.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (2000b). A new species of spider of the genus Thomisus Walckenaer (Araneae: Thomisidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 98: 55-57.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (2000c). A new species of the genus Neoscona Simon (Araneae: Araneidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 98: 119-121.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (2000d). A new species of the genus Oxyopes Latreille (Araneae: Oxyopidae) from Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 98: 123-125.
Gajbe, U. A. & P. Gajbe. (2000e). A new species of the genus Runcinia Simon (Araneae: Thomisidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 98: 155-157.
Galiano, M. E. Descripción de Kalcerrytus, nuevo género (Araneae, Salticidae). Physis B. Aires (C) 132-133: 53-71.
Gasparo, F. (2000a). Descrizione di Dysdera brignoliana n. sp. delle Isole Ponziane (Italia centrale) (Araneae Dysderidae). Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 78: 395-401.
Gasparo, F. (2000b). Note sinonimiche e corologiche su due specie del genere Troglohyphantes Joseph, 1881, delle Alpi orientali (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Gortania Atti Mus. Friulano Storis nat. 22: 201-209.
Gasparo, F. & K. Thaler. I ragni cavernicoli della Venezia Giulia (Italia nord-orientale) (Arachnida, Araneae). Atti Memorie Commissione Grotte "E. Boegan" 37: 17-55.
-->
|2000-Goloboff={{Ts.|Goloboff, P. A.}} (2000) The family Gallieniellidae (Araneae, Gnaphosoidea) in the Americas. J. Arachnol. 28: 1-6.
<!--
Grismado, C. J. Dos nuevas especies del género Orinomana Strand de Argentina (Araneae, Uloboridae). Physis B. Aires (C) 57: 97-100.
Grismado, C. J. & M. J. Ramírez. Notes on the spider genus Misionella with a description of a new species from Brazil (Araneae: Filistatidae). Stud. neotrop. Fauna Environm. 35: 161-163.
Hansen, H. Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Biologie von Evarcha jucunda (Araneae Salticidae). Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 78: 499-513.
Harvey, M. S. & J. M. Waldock. Review of the spider genus Yoroa Baert (Araneae: Theridiidae: Hadrotarsinae). Aust. J. Ent. 39: 58-61.
He, S. & J. L. Hu. (2000a). A new species of the genus Micrommata from China (Araneae: Sparassidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 9: 14-16.
He, S. & J. L. Hu. (2000b). A new species of the genus Heteropoda from Hainan Province, China (Araneae: Sparassidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 9: 17-19.
Höfer, H. & A. D. Brescovit. A revision of the Neotropical spider genus Ancylometes Bertkau (Araneae: Pisauridae). Insect Syst. Evol. 31: 323-360.
Hormiga, G. Higher level phylogenetics of erigonine spiders (Araneae, Linyphiidae, Erigoninae). Smithson. Contrib. Zool. 609: 1-160.
-->
|2000-Huber=[http://www.bioone.org/doi/pdf/10.1206/0003-0090(2000)254%3C0001%3ANWPSAP%3E2.0.CO%3B2 {{Ts.|Huber, B. A.}} (2000) New World pholcid spiders (Araneae: Pholcidae): A revision at generic level. Bull. Am. Mus. nat. Hist. 254: 1-348.]
<!--
Hutchinson, R., P. Paquin & N. Dupérré. Cercidia prominens (Westring) (Araneae: Araneidae): nouvelles mentions au Québec, répartition géographique et notes biologiques. Fabreries 25: 40-45.
Hutchinson, R., P. Paquin & L. LeSage. Mangora gibberosa (Hentz) (Araneae: Araneidae) au Québec: nouvelles récoltes et notes biologiques. Fabreries 25: 46-51.
Irie, T. (2000a). Two new species of the genus Leptoneta (Araneae: Leptonetidae) from Kumamoto Prefecture, Kyushu, Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 209-214.
Irie, T. (2000b). A newly recorded spider from Japan, Micropholcus fauroti (Simon 1887) (Araneae: Pholcidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 215-217.
Irie, T. & H. Ono. A new species of the genus Cybaeus (Araneae: Cybaeidae) found in limestone and tuff caves of central Kyushu, Japan. Bull. natn. Sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 26: 173-177.
Jäger, P. (2000a). Selten nachgewiesene Spinnenarten aus Deutschland (Arachnida: Araneae). Arachnol. Mitt. 19: 49-57.
Jäger, P. (2000b). Two new heteropodine genera from southern continental Asia (Araneae: Sparassidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 61-71.
Jäger, P. (2000c). On Adcatomus ciudadus Karsch 1880, a remarkable spider species from Lima, with comments on South American Sparassidae (Arachnida, Araneae). Mitt. Mus. Natkd. Berl. Zool. Reihe 76: 237-242.
Jäger, P. (2000d). A new species of the huntsman spider genus Cerbalus Simon, 1897 from S. Tunisia (Araneae: Sparassidae). Bull. Br. Arachnol. Soc. 11: 358-360.
Jäger, P. (2000e). The huntsman spider genus Cebrennus: four new species and a preliminary key to known species. Rev. arachnol. 13: 163-186.
Jäger, P. (2000f). Heteropoda parva n. sp. and H. martusa n. sp. primitive or derived Heteropoda species? (Araneae: Sparassidae: Heteropodinae). Mitt. internat. entomol. Ver. 25: 195-205.
Jäger, P. & H. Ono. Sparassidae of Japan. I. New species of Olios, Heteropoda, and Sinopoda, with notes on some known species (Araneae: Sparassidae: Sparassinae and Heteropodinae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 41-60.
Jäger, P., A. Staudt, B. Schwarz & C. Busse. Spinnen (Arachnida: Araneae) von Weinbergen und Weinbergsbrachen am Mittelrhein (Rheinland-Pfalz: Boppard, Oberwesel). Arachnol. Mitt. 19: 28-40.
-->
|2000b-Jaschhof={{Ts.|Jaschhof, M.}} (2000) Catotrichinae subfam. n.: a re-examination of higher classification in gall midges (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae). [http://ci.nii.ac.jp/els/110003374710.pdf?id=ART0003849667&type=pdf&lang=en&host=cinii&order_no=&ppv_type=0&lang_sw=&no=1402057617&cp= Entomological Science 3: 639-652.]
<!--
Kamura, T. Three species of the genera Zelotes and Aphantaulax (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 159-164.
Kim, B. W. & J. P. Kim. A revision of the genus Synagelides Strand, 1906 (Araneae, Salticidae) in Korea. Korean J. syst. Zool. 16: 183-190.
Kim, J. P. & B. W. Kim. A revision of the subfamily Linyphiinae Blackwall, 1859 (Araneae, Linyphiidae) in Korea. Korean Arachnol. 16(2): 1-40.
Knoflach, B. & K. Thaler. Notes on Mediterranean Theridiidae (Araneae) - I. Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 78: 411-442.
Knoflach, B. & A. van Harten. (2000a). Redescription of Theridion lacticolor Berland (Araneae: Theridiidae) with notes on mating behaviour. Cimbebasia 16: 215-222.
Knoflach, B. & A. van Harten. (2000b). Palpal loss, single palp copulation and obligatory mate consumption in Tidarren cuneolatum (Tullgren, 1910) (Araneae: Theridiidae). J. nat. Hist. 34: 1639-1659.
Kronestedt, T. Erigone angustata Westring, 1874: a long-surviving junior synonym of Agyneta conigera (O. P.-Cambridge, 1863). Newsl. Br. arachnol. Soc. 89: 4.
Kropf, C., A. Hänggi & M. Braunwalder. Zwei neue Spinnenarten für die Schweiz (Arachnida, Araneae). Jahrb. naturhist. Mus. Bern 13: 21-26.
Logunov, D. V. (2000a). A new endemic genus and three new species of the jumping spiders (Araneae: Salticidae) from the Seychelle Islands. Cimbebasia 16: 261-267.
Logunov, D. V. (2000b). Three new species of Lyssomanes Hentz, 1845 from Peru (Arachnida: Araneae: Salticidae). Reichenbachia 33: 267-270.
Logunov, D. V. (2000c). A new species of Lyssomanes Hentz, 1845 from Brazil (Araneae: Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 343-344.
Logunov, D. V. & Y. M. Marusik. Miscellaneous notes on Palaearctic Salticidae (Arachnida: Aranei). Arthropoda Selecta 8: 263-292.
Lyakhov, O. V. Contribution to the Middle Asian fauna of the spider genus Thanatus C. L. Koch, 1837 (Aranei: Philodromidae). Arthropoda Selecta 8: 221-230.
Main, B. Y. Biosystematics of two new species of unusually coloured Australian mygalomorph spiders, Arbanitis (Araneae: Idiopidae), from south-western Australia. J. R. Soc. West. Aust. 83: 93-97.
-->
|2000-Malten={{Ts.|Malten, A.}} (2000) Enoplognatha militaris ist ein Synonym von Enoplognatha latimana (Araneae: Theridiidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 19: 58-60.
<!--
Marusik, Y. M. & S. Koponen. New data on spiders (Aranei) from the Maritime Province, Russian Far East. Arthropoda Selecta 9: 55-68.
Marusik, Y. M., D. V. Logunov & S. Koponen. Spiders of Tuva, south Siberia. Institute for Biological Problems of the North, Magadan, 253 pp.
Melic, A. (2000a). El género Latrodectus Walckenaer, 1805 en la península Ibérica (Araneae, Theridiidae). Revta Ibérica Aracnol. 1: 13-30.
Melic, A. (2000b). Theridula gonygaster (Simon, 1873) en España (Araneae: Theridiidae). Revta Ibérica Aracnol. 1: 49-50.
Melic, A. (2000c). Arañas de Los Monegros (II): Siwa dufouri (Simon, 1874) (Araneae, Araneidae). Revta Ibérica Aracnol. 1: 59-60.
Merkens, S. & J. Wunderlich. Zwei für Deutschland neue Spinnenarten (Araneae): Enoplognatha serratosignata (L. Koch) (Theridiidae) und Cheiracanthium gratum Kulczynski (Clubionidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 19: 41-48.
Murphy, J. & P. Merrett. On Trichopus libratus C. M., 1834. Newsl. Br. arachnol. Soc. 89: 7.
Muster, C. & K. Thaler. Das Männchen von Zelotes zellensis Grimm (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Rev. suisse Zool. 107: 579-589.
Namkung, J., S. T. Kim & J. H. Lee. Revision of the fauna of Korean spiders (Arachnida: Araneae). Ins. Koreana 17: 303-343.
-->
|2000-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (2000) Zoogeographic and taxonomic notes on spiders of the subfamily Heptathelinae (Araneae, Mesothelae, Liphistiidae). Mem. natn. Sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 33: 145-151.
<!--
Ovtchinnikov, S. V. The nominotypical spider subgenus Coelotes Blackwall, 1841 (Araneae: Amaurobiidae, Coelotinae, Coelotes) in the fauna of Tien Shan Mts. Tethys entomol. Res. 2: 35-48.
Oxford, G. & P. Merrett. Tegenaria ferruginea (Panzer) in Britain, and differences from T. parietina (Fourcroy) (Araneae: Agelenidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 331-334.
Peng, X. J., L. S. Gong & J. P. Kim. Two new species and two unrecorded species of the family Salticidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from China. Korean J. Soil Zool. 5: 13-19.
Peng, X. J., C. M. Yin & J. P. Kim. (2000a). A new species of the genus Xysticus (Araneae: Thomisidae) from China. Korean J. biol. Sci. 4: 263-265.
Peng, X. J., C. M. Yin & J. P. Kim. (2000b). Two new species of the genus Thomisus (Araneae: Thomisidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 16(2): 73-78.
Pérez-Miles, F. Iracema cabocla new genus and species of a theraphosid spider from Amazonic Brazil (Araneae, Theraphosinae). J. Arachnol. 28: 141-148.
Pesarini, C. Contributo alla conoscenza della fauna araneologica italiana (Araneae). Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 78: 379-393.
Peters, H.-J. (2000a). Tarantulas of the world: Kleiner Atlas der Vogelspinnen - Band 1. Published by the author, 148 pp.
Peters, H.-J. (2000b). Tarantulas of the world: Kleiner Atlas der Vogelspinnen - Band 2. Published by the author, 162 pp.
-->
|2000a-Platnick={{Ts.|Platnick, N. I.}} (2000) A relimitation and revision of the Australasian ground spider family Lamponidae (Araneae: Gnaphosoidea). Bull. Am. Mus. nat. Hist. 245: 1-330.
|2000b-Platnick={{Ts.|Platnick, N. I.}} (2000) The tracheline spider genus Paccius (Araneae, Corinnidae) in the Parc National de Marojejy, Madagascar. Fieldiana Zool. (n. ser.) 97: 115-121.
|2000c-Platnick={{Ts.|Platnick, N. I.}} (2000) On Coxapopha, a new genus of the spider family Oonopidae from Panama (Araneae Haplogynae). Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 78: 403-410.
|2000-Poinar={{Ts.|Poinar, G.}} (2000) Fossil onychophorans from Dominican and Baltic amber: Tertiapatus dominicanus n.g., n.sp. (Tertiapatidae n.fam.) and Succinipatopsis balticus n.g., n.sp. (Succinipatopsidae n.fam.) with a proposed classification of the subphylum Onychophora. Invertebrate Biology 119: 104–109. doi: 10.1111/j.1744-7410.2000.tb00178.x
|2000-Prószyński={{Ts.|Prószyński, J.}} (2000) On mostly new species of Salticidae (Aranei) from Levant. Arthropoda Selecta 8: 231-262.
|2000a-Raven={{Ts.|Raven, R. J.}} (2000) Taxonomica Araneae I: Barychelidae, Theraphosidae, Nemesiidae and Dipluridae (Araneae). Mem. Qd Mus. 45: 569-575.
|2000b-Raven={{Ts.|Raven, R. J.}} (2000) A new species of funnel-web spider (Hadronyche, Hexathelidae, Mygalomorphae) from north Queensland. Mem. Qd Mus. 46: 225-230.
<!--
Raven, R. J. & B. C. Baehr. Revised status of the genus Hetaerica Rainbow (Araneae: Zodariidae). Mem. Qd Mus. 45: 577-583.
Reichling, S. B. & R. C. West. A new species of tarantula spider (Araneae, Mygalomorphae, Theraphosidae) from the Cayo District of Belize. Southwestern Naturalist 45: 128-132.
Rheims, C. A. & A. D. Brescovit. Six new species of Scytodes Latreille, 1804 (Araneae, Scytodidae) from Brazil. Zoosystema 22: 719-730.
Rinaldi, I. M. P. & M. Avelino. Descrição da fêmea e redescrição do macho de Coryphasia melloleitaoi Soares & Camargo, 1948 (Araneae, Salticidae). Revta bras. Ent. 44: 79-83.
Rudloff, J.-P. Eine neue Kombination innerhalb der Unterordnung Theraphosinae Tmesiphantes spinopalpus Schaefer, 1996 = Cyclosternum spinopalpus (Schaefer, 1996) nov. comb. (Theraphosidae: Mygalomorphae). Arthropoda 8(3): 6-7.
Ruzicka, V. Spiders (Araneae) of two valleys in the Krkonose Mts. (Czech Republic). Ekológia (Bratislava) 19(Suppl. 3): 235-244.
Ruzicka, V. & V. Bryja. Females of Walckenaeria-species (Araneae, Linyphiidae) in the Czech Republic. Acta Univ. Purkyn. srud. biol. 4: 135-147.
Saaristo, M. I. Kleptoarasitic [sic] theritiids [sic] spiders of the granitic Seychelles (Araneae, Theridiidae). Phelsuma 8: 35-49.
Saaristo, M. I. & A. V. Tanasevitch. Systematics of the Bolyphantes-Poeciloneta genus-group of the subfamily Micronetinae Hull, 1920 (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae). Reichenbachia 33: 255-265.
-->
|2000-Saether={{Ts.|Sæther, O. A.}} (2000) ''Aagaardia'', a new Holarctic orthoclad genus (Diptera: Chironomidae). ''Aquatic insects'', '''22'''(3): 177-196. {{doi|10.1076/0165-0424(200006)22:3;1-I;FT177}} [http://insects.ummz.lsa.umich.edu/~ethanbr/chiro/Books-Bibs/Saetherrefs/184.Aagaardia.pdf PDF]
|2000-Sasa-Suzuki={{Ts.|Sasa, M. & Suzuki, H.}} (2000) Stuidies on the chironomid species collected on Ishigaki and Iriomote Islands, southwestern Japan. [http://naosite.lb.nagasaki-u.ac.jp/dspace/bitstream/10069/4787/1/tm42_01_01_t.pdf Tropical Medicine, 42(1), March 2000: 1-37]
<!--
Schmidt, G. (2000a). Die Spermathek von Chromatopelma cyanopubescens (Strand, 1907) (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 8(7/8): 11-13.
Schmidt, G. (2000b). Das Männchen von Acanthoscurria acuminata Schmidt & Tesmoingt, 2000 (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 8(9/10): 1-4.
Schmidt, G. (2000c). Vergleich der Spermathek eines der Syntypen von Chilobrachys nitelinus Karsch, 1891 (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Selenocosmiinae), der Typusart der Gattung, mit der von in Deutschland erhältlichen Exemplaren der Art und anderer Chilobrachys-Spezies. Arachnol. Mag. 8(9/10): 5-9.
Schmidt, G. & R. Barensteiner. Vier Spinnen-Arten aus der Inneren Mongolei (Araneae: Lycosidae, Clubionidae, Gnaphosidae, Salticidae). Ent. Z., Stuttgart 110: 43-48.
Schmidt, G. & J. Gelling. Eine seltsame Eucratoscelus-Art aus Ostafrika (Araneae: Mygalomorphae, Theraphosidae, Harpactirinae). Ent. Z., Frankf. a. M. 110: 371-372.
Schmidt, G., H.-J. Peters & R. Samm. Das unbeschriebene Weibchen von Pterinochilus mamillatus Strand, 1906 sowie die Redescription das Männchens dieser Art (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Harpactirinae). Arachnol. Mag. 8(11/12): 8-17 (reprinted in Tarantulas of the World 51: 4-11).
Schmidt, G. & M. Tesmoingt. Eine weitere Acanthoscurria-Art aus Brasilien und Bolivien (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arachnol. Mag. 8(1/2): 1-6.
Schütt, K. The limits of the Araneoidea (Arachnida: Araneae). Aust. J. Zool. 48: 135-153.
Sejna, V. Cyriocosmus leetzi - trpaslík mezi sklípkany. Sklípkan 1/2000: 9-10.
Shield, J. M. & J. Strudwick. Diasterea, a new genus of flower spider (Thomisidae; Thomisinae) from eastern Australia and a description of the male Diasterea lactea. Proc. R. Soc. Victoria 111: 271-281.
Shimojana, M. (2000a). Description of eleven new species of the genus Coelotes (Araneae: Amaurobiidae) from the Ryukyu Islands, Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 165-189.
Shimojana, M. (2000b). Description of seven new species of the genus Coelotes (Arachnida: Araneae: Amaurobiidae) from the Amami and the Tokara Islands, Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 191-204.
Shimojana, M. & J. Haupt. A new nemesiid spider (Arachnida, Araneae) from the Ryukyu Archipelago, Japan. Zoosystema 22: 709-717.
Shimojana, M. & M. Nishihira. A new cave-dwelling eyeless spider of the genus Coelotes (Araneae: Amaurobiidae) from Okinawa Island, the Ryukyu Islands, Japan, with notes on possible parthenogenesis. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 29-40.
Sierwald, P. Description of the male of Sosippus placidus, with notes on the subfamily Sosippinae (Araneae, Lycosidae). J. Arachnol. 28: 133-140.
Sirvid, P. J. & C. J. Vink. New synonymies and a new combination for A. T. Urquhart araneid species (Araneae: Araneidae: Araneinae). Rec. Canterbury Mus. 14: 49-50.
Svaton, J., S. Pekár & R. Prídavka. Xysticus slovacus sp. n., a new thomisid spider from Slovakia (Araneae: Thomisidae). Acta Univ. Carolinae Biol. 44: 157-162.
Szita, É. & F. Samu. Taxonomical review of Thanatus species (Philodromidae, Araneae) of Hungary. Acta Zool. Acad. Sci. Hung. 46: 155-179.
Szüts, T. An Afrotropical species, Asemonea stella (Araneae: Salticidae), found in Australia. Folia ent. hung. 61: 61-63.
Tanaka, H. (2000a). The spider, W. okinawensis (Tanaka), of the genus Wadicosa Zyuzin (Araneae: Lycosidae) in Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 95-97.
Tanaka, H. (2000b). A new species of the genus Tricca (Araneae: Lycosidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 155-157.
Tanasevitch, A. V. (2000a). On some Palaearctic species of the spider genus Agyneta Hull, 1911, with description of four new species (Aranei: Linyphiidae). Arthropoda Selecta 8: 203-213.
Tanasevitch, A. V. (2000b). New species of the family Linyphiidae from south Siberia, Russia (Arachnida: Araneae). Reichenbachia 33: 243-253.
Tang, G. & C. M. Yin. One new species of the genus Pseudopoda from south China (Araneae: Sparassidae). Acta Laser Biol. Sinica 9: 274-275.
Tanikawa, A. (2000a). Japanese spiders of the genus Eriophora (Araneae: Araneidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 17-28.
Tanikawa, A. (2000b). Occurrence of Larinia bonneti (Araneae: Araneidae) in Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 205-207.
Thaler, K. Fragmenta faunistica Tirolensia - XIII (Arachnida: Araneae; Myriapoda: Diplopoda; Insecta, Diptera: Mycetophiloidea, Psychodidae, Trichoceridae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 87: 243-256.
Thaler, K., J. Buchar & B. Knoflach. Notes on wolf spiders from Greece (Araneae, Lycosidae). Linzer biol. Beitr. 32: 1071-1091.
Thaler, K. & B. Knoflach. Das Weibchen von Theonoe sola Thaler & Steinberger, 1988 (Arachnida: Araneae: Theridiidae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 87: 159-164.
Töpfer-Hofmann, G., D. Cordes & O. von Helversen. Cryptic species and behavioural isolation in the Pardosa lugubris group (Araneae, Lycosidae), with description of two new species. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 257-274.
Tso, I. M. & A. Tanikawa. New records of five orb-web spiders of the genera Leucauge, Mesida, and Eriovixia (Araneae: Tetragnathidae and Araneidae) from Taiwan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 125-131.
Tso, I. M. & H. Yoshida. A new species of the genus Nesticella (Araneae: Nesticidae) from Taiwan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 13-16.
Uhl, G. Two distinctly different sperm storage organs in female Dysdera erythrina (Araneae: Dysderidae). Arthropod Structure & Development 29: 163-169.
Urones, C. El género Diaea Thorell, 1869 (Araneae, Thomisidae) en la Península Ibérica. Boln. Asoc. esp. Ent. 24: 85-96.
Vink, C. J. & P. J. Sirvid. New synonymy between Oxyopes gracilipes (White) and Oxyopes mundulus L. Koch (Oxyopidae: Araneae). Mem. Qd Mus. 45: 637-640.
Vol, F. (2000a). Description de Bonnetina cyaneifemur, gen. n. & sp. n. (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Theraphosinae) du Mexique. Arachnides 44: 2-9.
Vol, F. (2000b). Description d'une deuxieme espece d'Acanthoscurria du bassin des Guyanes, Acanthoscurria simoensi sp. n. et comparaison avec l'espece meconnue Acanthoscurria minor Ausserer, 1871. Arachnides 47: 8-18.
Wang, X. P. A revision of the genus Tamgrinia (Araneae: Amaurobiidae), with notes on amaurobiid spinnerets, tracheae and trichobothria. Invertebr. Taxon. 14: 449-464.
Wesolowska, W. (2000a). New and little known species of jumping spiders from Zimbabwe (Araneae: Salticidae). Arnoldia Zimbabwe 10: 145-174.
Wesolowska, W. (2000b). A redescription of Lophostica mauriciana Simon, 1902 (Araneae: Salticidae). Genus 11: 95-98.
Wesolowska, W. & A. Russell-Smith. Jumping spiders from Mkomazi Game Reserve in Tanzania (Araneae Salticidae). Trop. Zool. 13: 11-127.
West, R. C. Some new theraphosids from western Mexico (Araneae, Mygalomorphae). Southwest. Nat. 45: 299-305.
West, R. C. & S. D. Marshall. Description of two new species of Ephebopus Simon, 1892 (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Aviculariinae). Arthropoda 8(2): 6-14.
Xiao, X. Q. A new species of the genus Heliophanus from China (Araneae: Salticidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 25: 282-284.
-->
|2000a-Xu-Yin={{Ts.|Xu, X. & C. M. Yin.}} (2000) One new species of the genus Heteropoda from China (Araneae: Heteropodidae). Acta Laser Biol. Sinica 9: 37-39.
|2000b-Xu-Yin={{Ts.|Xu, X. & C. M. Yin.}} (2000) A new species of genus Macrothele (Araneae: Hexathelidae) from China. Acta Laser Biol. Sinica 9: 200-202.
<!--
Xu, X., C. M. Yin & J. P. Kim. One new species of the genus Argyrodes Simon, 1864 (Araneae: Theridiidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 16(2): 85-89.
Xu, X., C. M. Yin & X. J. Peng. A new species of the genus Sinopoda from China (Araneae: Sparassidae). Life Sci. Res. 4: 374-376.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng, Y. H. Bao & J. P. Kim. Two new species of the genus Philodromus (Araneae: Philodromidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 16(2): 67-72.
Yin, C. M., X. J. Peng, H. M. Yan & Y. H. Bao. Two new species of the family Heteropodidae from China (Arachnoidea: Araneae). Acta arachnol. sin. 9: 98-100.
Yin, C. M. & Y. Tan. One new species of the genus Plesiophrictus from south China (Araneae: Theraphosidae). Life Sci. Res. 4: 151-154.
Yin, C. M., G. O. Tang & L. S. Gong. Two new species of the family Ctenidae from China (Arachnida: Araneae). Acta arachnol. sin. 9: 94-97.
Yin, C. M., H. M. Yan & J. P. Kim. One new species of genus Heteropoda from China (Araneae, Heteropodidae). Korean J. Soil Zool. 5: 5-7.
Yoshida, H. (2000a). A new species of the genus Euryopis (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 133-135.
Yoshida, H. (2000b). The spider genus Achaearanea (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 49: 137-153.
Yoshida, H. & H. Ono. Spiders of the genus Dipoena (Araneae, Theridiidae) from Japan. Bull. natn. Sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 26: 125--158.
Yoshida, H., I. M. Tso & L. L. Severinghaus. The spider family Theridiidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from Orchid Island, Taiwan: Descriptions of six new and one newly recorded species. Zool. Stud. 39: 123-132.
-->
|2000-Żabka={{Ts.|Żabka, M.}} (2000) Salticidae (Arachnida: Araneae) of the Oriental, Australian and Pacific regions, XIII: the genus Sandalodes Keyserling. Invertebr. Taxon. 14: 695-704.
|2000-Zhang-Zhang={{Ts.|Zhang, F. & J. X. Zhang.}} (2000) Three new species and a new discovery of female of genus Pholcus from Taihang Mts., China. J. Hubei Univ. 20: 151-156.
<!--
Zhang, J. X. Taxonomy studies on Chinese spiders of the genus Pisaura (Araneae: Pisauridae) I. Acta arachnol. sin. 9: 1-9.
Zhang, Y. J., Z. C. Pan, L. J. Tong & S. H. Zhu. The spiders of family Thomisidae in Ningbo Tiantong Forest Park. J. Ningbo Univ. (Nat. Sci. Ed.) 13(4): 35-38.
Zhang, Y. J., C. M. Yin & J. P. Kim. Two new species of the genus Coelotes (Araneae: Amaurobiidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 16(2): 79-84.
Zhang, Y. Q. [Introduction of poisonous spiders - Theraphosidae]. Guangxi Plant Protection 13(1): 22-24.
Zhu, M. S., H. M. Chen & D. X. Song. A new species of the genus Anahita (Araneae: Ctenidae) from China. In Zoological Studies in China. China Forestry Publishing House, pp. 210-212.
-->
|2000-Zhu-Li-Song={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S., T. H. Li & D. X. Song.}} (2000) A new species of the genus Macrothele (Araneae: Hexathelidae) from China. J. Hubei Univ. 20: 358-361.
|2000a-Zhu-Song={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S. & D. X. Song.}} (2000) Taxonomic study on Selenocosmia huwena Wang et al., 1993 (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Ornithoctoninae). J. Hubei Univ. 20: 53-56.
|2000b-Zhu-Song={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S. & D. X. Song.}} (2000) Review of the Chinese funnel-web spiders of the genus Macrothele, with descriptions of two new species (Araneae: Hexathelidae). Raffles Bull. Zool. 48: 59-64.
<!--
Zonstein, S. L. Two new species of the mygalomorph spider genus Raveniola Zonstein, 1987 (Araneae, Nemesiidae) from southwestern Asia. Tethys entomol. Res. 2: 49-52.
Zyuzin, A. A. & D. V. Logunov. New and little-known species of the Lycosidae from Azerbaihan, the Caucasus (Araneae, Lycosidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 11: 305-319.
-->

<!-- 2001 -->
|2001a-Alayón G.={{Ts.|Alayón G., G.}} (2001) Especie nueva de Selenops (Araneae: Selenopidae) de Curazao, Antillas Holandesas. Solenodon 1: 17-20.
|2001b-Alayón G.={{Ts.|Alayón G., G.}} (2001) Dos nuevas especies de Oligoctenus Simon, 1887 (Araneae: Ctenidae) de Cuba y Trinidad. Revta Ibérica Aracnol. 3: 37-42.
|2001c-Alayón G.={{Ts.|Alayón G., G.}} (2001) Descripciones de la hembra de Microsa cubitas y del macho de Zelotes holguin (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Revta Ibérica Aracnol. 4: 23-26.
|2001-Arnò={{Ts.|Arnò, C.}} (2001) Ragni dell'area protetta "Fascia fluviale del Po": nota preliminare su tre specie nuove per l'Italia e una nuova per il Piemonte (Arachnida, Araneae). Rivista Piemontese Storia Nat. 22: 155-164.
|2001-Azarkina-Logunov={{Ts.|Azarkina, G. N. & D. V. Logunov.}} (2001) Separation and distribution of Xysticus cristatus (Clerck, 1758) and X. audax (Schrank, 1803) in eastern Eurasia, with description of a new species from the mountains of central Asia (Aranei: Thomisidae). Arthropoda Selecta 9: 133-150.
|2001-Baehr-Jocqué={{Ts.|Baehr, B. & R. Jocqué.}} (2001) Revisions of genera in the Asteron-complex (Araneae: Zodariidae): new genera Pentasteron, Phenasteron, Leptasteron and Subasteron. Mem. Qd Mus. 46: 359-385.
|2001-Barrion={{Ts.|Barrion, A. T.}} (2001) A new species of dried banana leaf spider, Neobrettus Wanless 1984 (Araneae: Salticidae) from the agricultural lowlands of Mt. Banahaw, Quezon Province, Philippines. Philipp. Ent. 15: 27-35.
|2001-Benjamin={{Ts.|Benjamin, S. P.}} (2001) The genus Oxytate L. Koch 1878 from Sri Lanka, with description of Oxytate taprobane sp. n. (Araneae: Thomisidae). J. S. Asian nat. Hist. 5: 153-158.
|2001-Berry-Prószyński={{Ts.|Berry, J. W. & J. Prószyński.}} (2001) Description of Hakka, a new genus of jumping spider (Araneae, Salticidae) from Hawaii and East Asia. J. Arachnol. 29: 201-204.
|2001-Bertani={{Ts.|Bertani, R.}} (2001) Revision, cladistic analysis, and zoogeography of Vitalius, Nhandu, and Proshapalopus; with notes on other theraphosine genera (Araneae, Theraphosidae). Arq. Zool., S. Paulo 36: 265-356.
|2001a-Bhandari-Gajbe={{Ts.|Bhandari, R. & P. Gajbe.}} (2001) A study of three new species of spiders of the genera Chorizopes Cambridge, Larinia Simon and Neoscona Simon (Araneae: Araneidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 99: 59-63.
|2001b-Bhandari-Gajbe={{Ts.|Bhandari, R. & P. Gajbe.}} (2001) Description of three new species of spiders of the genera Thomisus Walckenaer, Oxyptila Simon and Xysticus Koch (Araneae: Thomisidae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 99: 81-85.
|2001c-Bhandari-Gajbe={{Ts.|Bhandari, R. & P. Gajbe.}} (2001) Description of four new species of spiders of the families Uloboridae, Philodromidae, Gnaphosidae and Lycosidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from Madhya Pradesh, India. Rec. zool. Surv. India 99: 87-93.
|2001-Bonaldo-Lise={{Ts.|Bonaldo, A. B. & A. A. Lise.}} (2001) A review of the Neotropical spider genus Stephanopoides (Araneae, Thomisidae, Stephanopinae). Biociências 9: 63-80.
|2001-Brescovit-Cunha={{Ts.|Brescovit, A. D. & F. de S. Cunha.}} (2001) Four new species of Dolichognatha Pickard-Cambridge, 1869 from Brazil and description of the female of D. maturaca Lise, 1993 (Araneae: Tetragnathidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 97-104.
|2001-Brescovit-Cunha={{Ts.|Brescovit, A. D. & C. A. Rheims.}} (2001) Notes on the genus Scytodes (Araneae, Scytodidae) in Central and South America. J. Arachnol. 29: 312-329.
|2001-Breuss={{Ts.|Breuss, W.}} (2001) Bemerkenswerte Spinnen aus Vorarlberg (Österreich)-I (Arachnida: Araneae: Lycosidae, Theridiidae, Mysmenidae, Gnaphosidae, Salticidae). Ber. nat.-med. Verein Innsbruck 88: 183-193.
|2001-Buchar={{Ts.|Buchar, J.}} (2001) Two new species of the genus Alopecosa (Araneae: Lycosidae) from south-eastern Europe. Acta Univ. Carolinae Biol. 45: 257-266.
|2001-Buchar-Thaler={{Ts.|Buchar, J. & K. Thaler.}} (2001) Lycosidae aus dem Nepal-Himalaya: IV. Arctosa raptor (Kulczynski 1885), eine bemerkenswerte hochalpine Art aus dem Dhaulagiri-Massiv (Araneae, Lycosidae). Senckenberg. biol. 81: 55-59.
|2001-Buckle-Carroll-Crawford-Roth={{Ts.|Buckle, D. J., D. Carroll, R. L. Crawford & V. D. Roth.}} (2001) Linyphiidae and Pimoidae of America north of Mexico: checklist, synonymy, and literature. Fabreries, Suppl. 10: 89-191.
|2001a-Capocasale={{Ts.|Capocasale, R. M.}} (2001) Review of the South American species of the genera Aulonia and Allocosa (Araneae, Lycosidae). J. Arachnol. 29: 270-272.
|2001b-Capocasale={{Ts.|Capocasale, R. M.}} (2001) Redescripción de Lycosa poliostoma (C. L. Koch) (Araneae, Lycosidae). Revta Ibérica Aracnol. 3: 79-86.
|2001-Chen-Kim={{Ts.|Chen, J., D. X. Song & J. P. Kim.}} (2001) Three new species of the genus Alopecosa Simon from China (Araneae: Lycosidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 26: 18-23.
|2001-Chen-Song-Li={{Ts.|Chen, J., D. X. Song & S. Q. Li.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Pardosa from China (Araneae: Lycosidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 26: 476-478.
|2001-Chen-Yin={{Ts.|Chen, J. A. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) A new spider genus and species of the family Linyphiidae from China (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 26: 170-173.
|2001a-Cokendolpher-Reddell={{Ts.|Cokendolpher, J. C. & J. R. Reddell.}} (2001) New and rare nesticid spiders from Texas caves (Araneae: Nesticidae). Texas Meml Mus. Speleol. Monogr. 5: 25-34.
|2001b-Cokendolpher-Reddell={{Ts.|Cokendolpher, J. C. & J. R. Reddell.}} (2001) Cave spiders (Araneae) of Fort Hood, Texas, with descriptions of new species of Cicurina (Dictynidae) and Neoleptoneta (Leptonetidae). Texas Meml Mus. Speleol. Monogr. 5: 35-55.
|2001-Corronca={{Ts.|Corronca, J. A.}} (2001) Three new species of Selenops Latreille, 1819 (Aranei: Selenopidae) from Afrotropical region. Arthropoda Selecta 10: 55-58.
|2001-Davies-Lambkin={{Ts.|Davies, V. T. & C. Lambkin.}} (2001) A revision of Procambridgea Forster & Wilton, (Araneae: Amaurobioidea: Stiphidiidae). Mem. Qd Mus. 46: 443-459.
|2001-Deeleman-Reinhold={{Ts.|Deeleman-Reinhold, C. L.}} (2001) Forest spiders of South East Asia: with a revision of the sac and ground spiders (Araneae: Clubionidae, Corinnidae, Liocranidae, Gnaphosidae, Prodidomidae and Trochanterriidae [sic]). Brill, Leiden, 591 pp.
|2001-Deeleman-Reinhold-Harten={{Ts.|Deeleman-Reinhold, C. L. & A. van Harten.}} (2001) Description of some interesting, new or little known Pholcidae (Araneae) from Yemen. In Prakash, I. (ed.), Ecology of Desert Environments, Scientific Publishers, Jodhpur, India, pp. 193-207.
|2001-Deltshev-Blagoev={{Ts.|Deltshev, C. & G. Blagoev.}} (2001) A critical check list of Bulgarian spiders (Araneae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 110-138.
|2001-Di Franco={{Ts.|Di Franco, F.}} (2001) Gnaphosidae (Arachnida, Araneae) della Riserva Naturale Orientata "Oasi del Simeto" (Catania). Naturalista sicil. 25: 195-215.
|2001-Dobroruka={{Ts.|Dobroruka, L. J.}} (2001) Pseudicius epiblemoides (Araneae: Salticidae) in central Europe. Arachnol. Mitt. 22: 50-54.
|2001-Dondale-Buckle={{Ts.|Dondale, C. D. & D. J. Buckle.}} (2001) The spider genus Maro in North America (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Fabreries 26: 9-15.
|2001-Edmunds-Prószyński={{Ts.|Edmunds, M. & J. Prószyński.}} (2001) New species of Malaysian Agorius and Sobasina (Araneae: Salticidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 139-143.
|2001-Edwards={{Ts.|Edwards, G. B.}} (2001) A synonym in the genus Fluda (Araneae: Salticidae). Insecta Mundi 14: 252.
|2001-El-Hennawy={{Ts.|El-Hennawy, H. K.}} (2001) Catalogue and bibliography of genus Cheiracanthium C. L. Koch, 1839 (Arachnida: Araneida: Miturgidae). Serket 7: 114-155.
|2001-Esyunin-Marusik={{Ts.|Esyunin, S. L. & Y. M. Marusik.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Devade Simon, 1884 from Mongolia, with notes on D. tenella (Tyshchenko, 1965) (Aranei: Dictynidae). Arthropoda Selecta 9: 129-131.
|2001-Framenau-Vink={{Ts.|Framenau, V. W. & C. J. Vink.}} (2001) Revision of the wolf spider genus Venatrix Roewer (Araneae: Lycosidae). Invertebr. Taxon. 15: 927-970.
|2001-Galiano={{Ts.|Galiano, M. E.}} (2001) Revisión de las especies de Freya del grupo decorata (Araneae, Salticidae). J. Arachnol. 29: 21-41.
|2001-Gallon={{Ts.|Gallon, R. C.}} (2001) Revision of the Ceratogyrus spp. formerly included in Coelogenium (Araneae: Theraphosidae, Harpactirinae). Mygalomorph 2: 1-20.
|2001-Gasparo={{Ts.|Gasparo, F.}} (2001) Note su Troglohyphantes iulianae, con descrizione del maschio (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Fragm. ent. 33: 1-7.
|2001-González-Sponga={{Ts.|González-Sponga, M. A.}} (2001) Arácnidos de Venezuela: cinco nuevas especies del género Ochyrocera y redescripción de Ochyrocera vesiculifera Simon, 1892 (Araneae: Ochyroceratidae). Memor. Fundac. La Salle Cienc. Nat. 60(153): 87-101.
|2001-Gray-Thompson={{Ts.|Gray, M. R. & J. A. Thompson.}} (2001) New lycosoid spiders from cave and surface habitats in southern Australia and Cape Range peninsula (Araneae: Lycosoidea). Rec. West. Aust. Mus. Suppl. 64: 159-170.
|2001-Grismado={{Ts.|Grismado, C. J.}} (2001) Notes on the genus Sybota with a description of a new species from Argentina (Araneae, Uloboridae). J. Arachnol. 29: 11-15.
|2001-Griswold={{Ts.|Griswold, C. E.}} (2001) A monograph of the living world genera and Afrotropical species of cyatholipid spiders (Araneae, Orbiculariae, Araneoidea, Cyatholipidae). Mem. Calif. Acad. Sci. 26: 1-251.
|2001-Griswold-Ledford={{Ts.|Griswold, C. E. & J. Ledford.}} (2001) A monograph of the migid trap door spiders of Madagascar and review of the world genera (Araneae, Mygalomorphae, Migidae). Occas. Pap. Calif. Acad. Sci. 151: 1-120.
|2001-Griswold-Ubick={{Ts.|Griswold, C. E. & D. Ubick.}} (2001) Zoropsidae: a spider family newly introduced to the USA (Araneae, Entelegynae, Lycosoidea). J. Arachnol. 29: 111-113.
|2001-Harvey={{Ts.|Harvey, M. S.}} (2001) Notes on the spider genus Symphytognatha (Araneae: Symphytognathidae) in Western Australia. Rec. West. Aust. Mus. 20: 345-347.
|2001-Haupt-Shimojana={{Ts.|Haupt, J. & M. Shimojana.}} (2001) The spider fauna of soil banks: the genus Latouchia (Arachnida, Araneae, Ctenizidae) in southern Japan and Taiwan. Mitt. Mus. Nat.kd. Berl., Zool. Reihe 77: 95-110.
|2001-Helsdingen-Thaler-Deltshev={{Ts.|Helsdingen, P. J. van, K. Thaler & C. Deltshev.}} (2001) The European species of Bolyphantes with an attempt of a phylogenetic analysis (Araneae Linyphiidae). Mem. Soc. entomol. ital. 80: 3-35.
|2001-Hu={{Ts.|Hu, J. L.}} (2001) Spiders in Qinghai-Tibet Plateau of China. Henan Science and Technology Publishing House, 658 pp.
|2001-Huber={{Ts.|Huber, B. A.}} (2001) The pholcids of Australia (Araneae; Pholcidae): taxonomy, biogeography, and relationships. Bull. Am. Mus. nat. Hist. 260: 1-144.
|2001-Huber-Pérez={{Ts.|Huber, B. A. & A. Pérez G.}} (2001) A new genus of pholcid spiders (Araneae: Pholcidae) endemic to western Cuba, with a case of female genitalic dimorphism. Am. Mus. Novit. 3329: 1-23.
|2001-Huber-Harten={{Ts.|Huber, B. A. & A. van Harten.}} (2001) Ninetis subtilissima Simon, 1890 (Araneae: Pholcidae): redescription and SEM ultrastructure. Am. Mus. Novit. 3336: 1-7.
|2001-Huber-Zhu={{Ts.|Huber, B. A. & M. S. Zhu.}} (2001) On Taczanowski's pholcids, with three new synonymies in Pholcidae (Araneae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 151-152.
|2001-Ibarra-Núñez-García-Jiménez-Mazariégos={{Ts.|Ibarra-Núñez, G., J. A. García, M. L. Jiménez & A. Mazariégos.}} (2001) Synonyms of Frontinella tibialis (Araneae, Linyphiidae). J. Arachnol. 29: 378-387.
|2001-Irie-Ono={{Ts.|Irie, T. & H. Ono.}} (2001) Two new species of the genus Cybaeus (Araneae: Cybaeidae) from Kyushu, Japan. Bull. natn. Sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 27: 205-210.
|2001-Isaia={{Ts.|Isaia, M.}} (2001) Indagine preliminare sull'araneofauna epigea (Arachnida, Araneae) della Conca delle Carsene Parco Naturale Alta Valle Pesio e Tanaro (CN). Boll. Mus. reg. Sci. nat. Torino 18: 365-384.
|2001-Jaecks-Carlson={{Ts.|Jaecks, G. S., S. J. Carlson}} (2001) How phylogenetic inference can shape our view of heterochrony: examples from thecideide brachiopods. Paleobiology 27, 2: 205–225
|2001a-Jäger={{Ts.|Jäger, P.}} (2001) A new species of Heteropoda (Araneae, Sparassidae, Heteropodinae) from Laos, the largest huntsman spider? Zoosystema 23: 461-465.
|2001b-Jäger={{Ts.|Jäger, P.}} (2001) Diversität der Riesenkrabbenspinnen im Himalaya--die Radiation zweier Gattungen in den Schneetropen (Araneae, Sparassidae, Heteropodinae). Cour. Forsch.-Inst. Senckenberg 232: 1-136.
|2001-Jäger-Barrion={{Ts.|Jäger, P. & A. T. Barrion.}} (2001) First description of the male of Heteropoda cyperusiria Barrion & Litsinger 1995 from the Philippines (Araneae: Sparassidae: Heteropodinae). Philipp. Ent. 15: 37-43.
|2001-Jäger-Ono={{Ts.|Jäger, P. & H. Ono.}} (2001) First records of the genera Pseudopoda, Sinopoda, and Olios from Taiwan with descriptions of four new species (Araneae: Sparassidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 21-29.
|2001-Jäger-Yin={{Ts.|Jäger, P. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) Sparassidae in China. 1. Revised list of known species with new transfers, new synonymies and type designations (Arachnida: Araneae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 123-134.
|2001-Jantscher={{Ts.|Jantscher, E.}} (2001) Diagnostic characters of Xysticus cristatus, X. audax and X. macedonicus (Araneae: Thomisidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 17-25.
|2001-Jocqué={{Ts.|Jocqué, R.}} (2001) Chummidae, a new spider family (Arachnida, Araneae) from South Africa. J. Zool. Lond. 254: 481-493.
|2001-Jocqué-Alderweireldt={{Ts.|Jocqué, R. & M. Alderweireldt.}} (2001) Tricassa madagascariensis n. sp., the second representative of the wolf spider subfamily Tricassinae (Araneae, Lycosidae). Annls Mus. r. Afr. cent. 285: 29-31.
|2001-Jocqué-Baehr={{Ts.|Jocqué, R. & B. Baehr.}} (2001) Revisions of genera in the Asteron-complex (Araneae: Zodariidae). Asteron Jocqué and the new genus Pseudasteron. Rec. austral. Mus. 53: 21-36.
|2001-Jocqué-Bosmans={{Ts.|Jocqué, R. & R. Bosmans.}} (2001) A revision of the genus Selamia with the description of Amphiledorus gen. n. (Araneae, Zodariidae). Bull. Inst. roy. Sci. nat. Belg. (Ent.) 71: 115-134.
|2001-Jocqué-Szüts={{Ts.|Jocqué, R. & T. Szüts.}} (2001) Bacelarella (Araneae, Salticidae) in eastern Côte d'Ivoire: salticid radiation in a poorly lit environment. Annls Mus. r. Afr. cent. 285: 93-99.
|2001a-Jose-Sebastian={{Ts.|Jose, K. S. & P. A. Sebastian.}} (2001) Occurrence of Psechrus alticeps Pocock (Araneae: Psechridae) in western Ghats, Kerala with a redescription and notes on its habit and habitat. J. Bombay nat. Hist. Soc. 98: 304-306.
|2001b-Jose-Sebastian={{Ts.|Jose, K. S. & P. A. Sebastian.}} (2001) New report on some crab spiders (Araneae: Thomisidae) from Kerala, India. Entomon 26: 183-189.
|2001a-Kamura={{Ts.|Kamura, T.}} (2001) Seven species of the families Liocranidae and Corinnidae (Araneae) from Japan and Taiwan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 49-61.
|2001b-Kamura={{Ts.|Kamura, T.}} (2001) A new genus Sanitubius and a revived genus Kishidaia of the family Gnaphosidae (Araneae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 193-200.
|2001-Kim-Kim={{Ts.|Kim, B. W. & J. P. Kim.}} (2001) Two unrecorded species of the genus Theridion (Araneae: Theridiidae) in Korea. Korean Arachnol. 17: 153-159.
|2001-Kim-Choi={{Ts.|Kim, J. P. & H. J. Choi.}} (2001) A revisional study of the spider family Liocranidae (Simon, 1897) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 17: 79-110.
|2001-Kim-Gwin={{Ts.|Kim, J. P. & S. P. Gwon.}} (2001) A revisional study of the spider family Thomisidae Sundevall, 1833 (Arachnida: Araneae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 17: 13-78.
|2001-Kim-Jung={{Ts.|Kim, J. P. & J. Y. Jung.}} (2001) A revisional study of the spider family Philodromidae O.P.-Cambridge, 1871 (Arachnida: Araneae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 17: 185-222.
|2001-Kim-Tak={{Ts.|Kim, J. P. & H. K. Tak.}} (2001) A revisional study of the spiders family Agelenidae C. L. Koch, 1837 (Arachnida: Araneae) from Korea. Korean Arachnol. 17: 111-139.
|2001-Kirk={{Ts.|Kirk, P. J.}} (2001) A new species of Poecilotheria (Araneae: Theraphosidae) from Sri Lanka. Br. Tarantula Soc. J. 16: 77-88.
|2001-Knoflach-Harten={{Ts.|Knoflach, B. & A. van Harten.}} (2001) Tidarren argo sp. nov. (Araneae: Theridiidae) and its exceptional copulatory behaviour: emasculation, male palpal organ as a mating plug and sexual cannibalism. J. Zool. Lond. 254: 449-459.
|2001-Kronestedt-Logunov={{Ts.|Kronestedt, T. & D. V. Logunov.}} (2001) On the separation of Sitticus ranieri Peckham & Peckham and S. saxicola (C. L. Koch) (Araneae: Salticidae). Rev. suisse Zool. 108: 463-481.
|2001-Lazarov-Deltshev-Blagoev={{Ts.|Lazarov, S., C. Deltshev & G. Blagoev.}} (2001) The spiders (Araneae) of Sashtinska Sredna Gora Mountain (Bulgaria). Faunistic and zoogeographical analysis. Acta zool. bulg. 53: 3-28.
|2001-Ledoux={{Ts.|Ledoux, J.-C.}} (2001) Araignées des ripisilves du Rhône (Gard et Vaucluse). Bull. Soc. Et. Sci. nat. Vaucluse 1997-2000: 13-38.
|2001-Lee={{Ts.|Lee-Merrett, P. & P. Merrett.}} (2001) Meioneta fuscipalpa (C. L. Koch, 1836), a linyphiid spider new to Britain (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 10-12.
|2001-Levi={{Ts.|Levi, H. W.}} (2001) The orbweavers of the genera Molinaranea and Nicolepeira, a new species of Parawixia, and comments on orb weavers of temperate South America (Araneae: Araneidae). Bull. Mus. comp. Zool. Harv. 155: 445-475.
|2001a-Logunov={{Ts.|Logunov, D. V.}} (2001) A redefinition of the genera Bianor Peckham & Peckham, 1885 and Harmochirus Simon, 1885, with the establishment of a new genus Sibianor gen. n. (Aranei: Salticidae). Arthropoda Selecta 9: 221-286.
|2001b-Logunov={{Ts.|Logunov, D. V.}} (2001) New and poorly known species of the jumping spiders (Aranei: Salticidae) from Afghanistan, Iran and Crete. Arthropoda Selecta 10: 59-66.
|2001-Logunov-Marusik={{Ts.|Logunov, D. V. & Y. M. Marusik.}} (2001) Catalogue of the jumping spiders of northern Asia (Arachnida, Araneae, Salticidae). KMK Scientific Press, Moscow, 300 pp.
|2001-Logunov-Marusik-Trilikauskas={{Ts.|Logunov, D. V., Y. M. Marusik & L. A. Trilikauskas}} (2001) A new species of the genus Xysticus C. L. Koch from south Siberia (Arachnida: Araneae: Thomisidae). Reichenbachia 34: 33-38.
|2001-Martin-Aguiar-Baufeld={{Ts.|Martin, J.H., Aguiar, A.M.F. & Baufeld, P.}} (2001) ''Crenidorsum aroidephagus'' Martin & Aguiar sp. nov. (Sternorrhyncha: Aleyrodidae), a New World whitefly species now colonising cultivated Araceae in Europe, Macaronesia and the Pacific region. [http://www.mapress.com/zootaxa/2001f/z00004f.pdf Zootaxa, 4: 1-8 (Preview)]
|2001a-Marusik-Koponen={{Ts.|Marusik, Y. M. & S. Koponen.}} (2001) Spiders of the family Zodariidae from Mongolia (Arachnida: Araneae). Reichenbachia 34: 39-48.
|2001b-Marusik-Koponen={{Ts.|Marusik, Y. M. & S. Koponen.}} (2001) Description of a new species and new records of some species of the genus Gnaphosa (Araneae: Ganphosidae) from east Palearctic. Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 135-144.
|2001c-Marusik-Koponen={{Ts.|Marusik, Y. M. & S. Koponen.}} (2001) Revision of the Holarctic spider genus genus Procerocymbium Eskov 1989 (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 145-156.
|2001-Marusik-Koponen-Danilov={{Ts.|Marusik, Y. M., S. Koponen & S. N. Danilov.}} (2001) Taxonomic and faunistic notes on linyphiids of Transbaikalia and south Siberia (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 83-92.
|2001-Matsuda-Ono={{Ts.|Matsuda, M. & H. Ono.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Ummeliata (Araneae, Linyphiidae) from Japan. Bull. natn. sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 27: 271-276.
|2001-Medan={{Ts.|Medan, V.}} (2001) On the genus Eilica (Araneae, Gnaphosidae) from Argentina. J. Arachnol. 29: 423-426.
|2001-Merrett={{Ts.|Merrett, P.}} (2001) Clubiona pseudoneglecta Wunderlich, 1994, a clubionid spider new to Britain (Araneae: Clubionidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 32-34.
|2001-Mironov={{Ts.|Mironov, Vladimir}} (2001) "New and scarce European ''Eupithecia'' species (Geometridae)" ''Nota Lepidopterologica'' 24:21-28. [http://biostor.org/reference/117973 Link]
|2001-Mozaffarian-Marusik={{Ts.|Mozaffarian, F. & Y. M. Marusik.}} (2001) A checklist of Iranian spiders (Aranei). Arthropoda Selecta 10: 67-74.
|2001a-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (2001) Notes on three species of trapdoor spiders (Araneae, Liphistiidae and Ctenizidae) from Japan. Bull. natn. Sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 27: 151-157.
|2001b-Ono={{Ts.|Ono, H.}} (2001) Crab spiders of the family Thomisidae from the Kingdom of Bhutan (Arachnida, Araneae). Ent. Basil. 23: 203-236.
|2001-Ono-Mizuyama={{Ts.|Ono, H. & E. Mizuyama.}} (2001) Spiders from Uéno-kôen, Taitô-ku, Tokyo, Japan, first report (Arachnida, Araneae). Kishidaia 81: 43-52.
|2001-Ono-Saito={{Ts.|Ono, H. & H. Saito.}} (2001) New species of the family Linyphiidae (Arachnida, Araneae) from Japan.Bull. natn. Sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 27: 159-203.
|2001-Ono-Shinkai={{Ts.|Ono, J. & E. Shinkai.}} (2001) Spiders from the garden of the Institute for Nature Study, Shirogane, Tokyo, Japan (Arachnida, Araneae). Rept. Inst. nat. Stu. 33: 173-200.
|2001-Ovtchinnikov={{Ts.|Ovtchinnikov, S. V.}} (2001) Ecribellate Tricholathys relicta sp. n. (Araneae: Dictynidae: Tricholathysinae) from Kyrghyzstan. Tethys ent. Res. 3: 7-10.
|2001-Ovtchinnikov-Zonstein={{Ts.|Ovtchinnikov, S. V. & S. L. Zonstein.}} (2001) Zoropsis kirghizicus sp. n. (Araneae, Zoropsidae) from Tien-Shan and Alai. Tethys ent. Res. 3: 5-6.
|2001-Pan-Zhang={{Ts.|Pan, Z. C. & Y. J. Zhang.}} (2001) Phrynarachne katoi Tikuni, 1995 [sic] a new recorded species from China (Araneae: Thomisidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 10(1): 16-17.
|2001-Paquin-Dupérré={{Ts.|Paquin, P. & N. Dupérré.}} (2001) On the distribution and phenology of Argyrodes fictilium (Araneae, Theridiidae) at its northern limit of North America. J. Arachnol. 29: 238-243.
|2001-Pekár-Gajdos={{Ts.|Pekár, S. & P. Gajdos.}} (2001) Orchestina pavesii (Simon, 1873), an oonopid spider new to Slovakia (Araneae: Oonopidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 21: 50-53.
|2001-Peng-Yin={{Ts.|Peng, X. J. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) Two new species of the family Heteropodidae from China (Arachnida: Araneae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 26: 483-486.
|2001a-Pesarini={{Ts.|Pesarini, C.}} (2001) Sei nuove specie di Dysderidae d'Italia e di Grecia (Araneae). Atti Soc. it. Sci. nat. Museo civ. Stor. nat. Milano 141: 291-301.
|2001b-Pesarini={{Ts.|Pesarini, C.}} (2001) Note sui Troglophyphantes italiani, con descrizione di quattro nuove specie (Araneae Linyphiidae). Atti Soc. it. Sci. nat. Museo civ. Stor. nat. Milano 142: 109-133.
|2001-Piel={{Ts.|Piel, W. H.}} (2001) The systematics of Neotropical orb-weaving spiders in the genus Metepeira (Araneae: Araneidae). Bull. Mus. comp. Zool. Harv. 157: 1-92.
|2001-Piepho={{Ts.|Piepho, F.}} (2001) Verwirrung seit Jahren um Phormictopus meloderma. Arachnol. Mag. 9(5/6): 2-5.
|2001-Platnick-Ovtsharenko-Murphy={{Ts.|Platnick, N. I., V. I. Ovtsharenko & J. A. Murphy.}} (2001) A review of the ground spider genus Scotognapha (Araneae, Gnaphosidae), and its radiation on the Canary and Salvage Islands. Am. Mus. Novit. 3338: 1-22.
|2001-Platnick-Ubick={{Ts.|Platnick, N. I. & D. Ubick.}} (2001) A revision of the North American spiders of the new genus Socalchemmis (Araneae, Tengellidae). Am. Mus. Novit. 3339: 1-25.
|2001-Prentice={{Ts.|Prentice, T. R.}} (2001) Distinguishing the females of Trochosa terricola and Trochosa ruricola (Araneae, Lycosidae) from populations in Illinois, USA. J. Arachnol. 29: 427-430.
|2001-Prószyński={{Ts.|Prószyński, J.}} (2001) Remarks on jumping spiders of the genus Damoetas related to Myrmarachne (Araneae: Salticidae) with description of two new species. Annls zool. Warsz. 51: 517-522.
|2001-Ramírez-Lopardo-Bonaldo={{Ts.|Ramírez, M. J., L. Lopardo & A. B. Bonaldo.}} (2001) A review of the Chilean spider genus Olbus, with notes on the relationships of the Corinnidae (Arachnida, Araneae). Insect Syst. Evol. 31: 441-462.
|2001-Raven-Stumkat-Gray={{Ts.|Raven, R. J., K. Stumkat & M. R. Gray.}} (2001) Revisions of Australian ground-hunting spiders: I. Amauropelma gen. nov. (Araneomorphae: Ctenidae). Rec. West. Aust. Mus. Suppl. 64: 187-227.
|2001a-Rheims-Brescovit={{Ts.|Rheims, C. A. & A. D. Brescovit.}} (2001) Three new species of litter inhabiting spiders of the genus Scytodes Latreille from northeastern Brazil (Araneae, Scytodidae). Spixiana 24: 123-128.
|2001b-Rheims-Brescovit={{Ts.|Rheims, C. A. & A. D. Brescovit.}} (2001) New species and records of Scytodes Latreille, 1804 of the "globula group" from Brazil (Araneae, Scytodidae). Andrias 15: 91-98.
|2001-Ruzicka={{Ts.|Ruzicka, V.}} (2001) The female of Anyphaena furva Miller (Araneae: Anyphaenidae). Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 46-48.
|2001-Rudloff={{Ts.|Rudloff, J.-P.}} (2001) Anmerkungen zur systematischen Stellung von Acanthopelma rufescens F.O.P.-Cambridge, 1897 und Acanthopelma annae Reichling, 1997 (Ischnocolinae: Theraphosidae: Mygalomorphae), sowie die Einrichtung einer neuen Gattung Reichlingia gen. nov. (Mygalomorphae: Barychelidae: Trichopelmatinae). Arthropoda 9(3): 14-20.
|2001a-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (2001) Dwarf hunting spiders or Oonopidae (Arachnida, Araneae) of the Seychelles. Insect Syst. Evol. 32: 307-358.
|2001b-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (2001) Pholcid spiders of the granitic Seychelles (Araneae, Pholcidae). Phelsuma 9: 9-28.
|2001c-Saaristo={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I.}} (2001) Euso-a new name for Eusora Saaristo, 1998 (Araneae: Ochyroceratidae). Phelsuma 9: 66.
|2001-Saaristo-Tanasevitch={{Ts.|Saaristo, M. I. & A. V. Tanasevitch.}} (2001) Reclassification of the pallidus-, insignis-and spelaeorum-groups of Lephthyphantes Menge, 1866 (sensu lato) (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae: Micronetinae). Reichenbachia 34: 5-17.
|2001-Saito-Ono={{Ts.|Saito, H. & H. Ono.}} (2001) New genera and species of the spider family Linyphiidae (Arachnida, Araneae) from Japan. Bull. natn. Sci. Mus. Tokyo (A) 27: 1-59.
|2001-Santos-Brescovit={{Ts.|Santos, A. J. & A. D. Brescovit.}} (2001) A revision of the South American spider genus Aglaoctenus Tullgren, 1905 (Araneae, Lycosidae, Sosippinae). Andrias 15: 75-90.
|2001-Schikora={{Ts.|Schikora, H.-B.}} (2001) Erster Nachweis der Gattung Wubanoides Eskov, 1986 in Deutschland (Araneae, Linyphiidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 21: 38-45.
|2001a-Schmidt={{Ts.|Schmidt, G.}} (2001) Nesiplema Schmidt & Kovarik, 1996-ein Synonym von Phormictopus Pocock, 1901? Arachnol. Mag. 9(1/2): 1-7.
|2001b-Schmidt={{Ts.|Schmidt, G.}} (2001) Reversopelma petersi sp. n. (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae), eine neue Spinnenart aus dem Nordesten Südamerikas. Arachnol. Mag. 9(3/4): 1-10 (reprinted in Tarantulas of the World 55: 4-11).
|2001c-Schmidt={{Ts.|Schmidt, G.}} (2001) Eumenophorinae sp. von der Insel Sokotra-Mitarbeit erbeten. Arachnol. Mag. 9(5/6): 13-14.
|2001d-Schmidt={{Ts.|Schmidt, G.}} (2001) Grammostola fossor sp. n., ein weiterer Vertreter der Grammostola iheringi-Gruppe aus Argentinien (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Theraphosinae). Arthropoda 9(3): 2-8.
|2001e-Schmidt={{Ts.|Schmidt, G.}} (2001) Argyrodes insectus sp. n. (Araneae: Theridiidae), eine Spezies von Cabo Verde. Arthropoda 9(9/10): 1-3.
|2001-Schmidt-Bullmer={{Ts.|Schmidt, G. & M. Bullmer.}} (2001) Grammostola aureostriata sp. nov., ein vertreter der Grammostola iheringi-Gruppe (Araneae: Theraphosidae, Theraphosinae) aus Argentinien und Paraguay. Ent. Z., Stuttgart 111: 173-176.
|2001-Schmidt-Piepho-Samm={{Ts.|Schmidt, G., F. Piepho & R. Samm.}} (2001) Ist Latrodectus schuchi (C. L. Koch, 1836) ein Synonym von Latrodectus mactans (Fabricius, 1775) (Araneae: Theridiidae)? Arthropoda 9(11/12): 1-5.
|2001-Schneider-Thomas-Elgar={{Ts.|Schneider, J. M., M. L. Thomas & M. A. Elgar.}} (2001) Ectomised conductors in the golden orb-web spider, Nephila plumipes (Araneoidea): a male adaptation to sexual conflict? Behav. Ecol. Sociobiol. 49: 410-415.
|2001-Senglet={{Ts.|Senglet, A.}} (2001) Copulatory mechanisms in Hoplopholcus, Stygopholcus (revalidated), Pholcus, Spermophora and Spermophorides (Araneae, Pholcidae), with additional faunistic and taxonomic data. Mitt. schweiz. ent. Ges. 74: 43-67.
|2001-Simó={{Ts.|Simó-Brescovit, M. & A. D. Brescovit.}} (2001) Revision and cladistic analysis of the Neotropical spider genus Phoneutria Perty, 1833 (Araneae, Ctenidae), with notes on related Ctenidae. Bull. Br. arachnol. Soc. 12: 67-82.
|2001-Song-Zhu-Chen={{Ts.|Song, D. X., M. S. Zhu & J. Chen.}} (2001) The Fauna of Hebei, China: Araneae. Hebei Science Technol. Publ. House, 510 pp.
|2001-Szinetár-Guitprecht={{Ts.|Szinetár, C. & G. Guitprecht.}} (2001) A Pardosa maisa Hippa & Mannila, 1982 Elókerülése Magyarországon (Araneae, Lycosidae). Folia Mus. hist.-nat. Bakonyiensis 17: 87-96.
|2001-Szüts={{Ts.|Szüts, T.}} (2001) Description of a new Goleba species from the African continent (Araneae: Salticidae). Annls Mus. R. Afr. Centr. (Zool.) 285: 111-115.
|2001a-Szüts-Jocqué={{Ts.|Szüts, T. & R. Jocqué.}} (2001) A revision of the Afrotropical spider genus Palfuria (Araneae, Zodariidae). J. Arachnol. 29: 205-219.
|2001b-Szüts-Jocqué={{Ts.|Szüts, T. & R. Jocqué.}} (2001) New species in the genus Bacelarella (Araneae, Salticidae) from Côte d'Ivoire. Annls Mus. r. Afr. cent. 285: 77-92.
|2001-Tanasevitch={{Ts.|Tanasevitch, A. V.}} (2001) A new micronetine genus proposed for the tchatkalensis species-group of Lepthyphantes Menge (sensu lato) (Arachnida: Araneae: Linyphiidae: Micronetinae). Reichenbachia 34: 19-327.
|2001a-Tang-Song-Zhang={{Ts.|Tang, G. M., D. X. Song & F. Zhang.}} (2001) On one new species and one new record of the genus Gnaphosa from China (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 10(2): 15-17.
|2001b-Tang-Song-Zhang={{Ts.|Tang, G. M., D. X. Song & F. Zhang.}} (2001) On one new species of the genus Drassodes (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from China. Acta zool. sin. 47(Suppl.): 59-61.
|2001a-Tanikawa={{Ts.|Tanikawa, A.}} (2001) Okileucauge sasakii, a new genus and species of spider from Okinawajima Island, southwest Japan (Araneae, Tetragnathidae). J. Arachnol. 29: 16-20.
|2001b-Tanikawa={{Ts.|Tanikawa, A.}} (2001) Twelve new species and one newly recorded species of the spider genus Araneus (Araneae: Araneidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 63-86.
|2001c-Tanikawa={{Ts.|Tanikawa, A.}} (2001) Two new synonymies of the spider genus Cyrtarachne (Araneae: Araneidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 87-89.
|2001-Thaler-Staudt={{Ts.|Thaler, K. & A. Staudt.}} (2001) Das Weibchen von Erigonoplus justus (O. P.-Cambridge, 1875) (Araneae: Linyphiidae). Arachnol. Mitt. 21: 32-37.
|2001-Townsend={{Ts.|Townsend, V. R., Jr., B. E. Felgenhauer & J. F. Grimshaw.}} (2001) Comparative morphology of the Australian lynx spiders of the genus Oxyopes (Araneae: Oxyopidae). Aust. J. Zool. 49: 561-576.
|2001-Tuneva={{Ts.|Tuneva, T. K.}} (2001) Trachyzelotes lyonneti is a rare for Russia species of gnaphosids (Aranei, Gnaphosidae). Zool. Zhur. 80: 1521-1522.
|2001-Uhl-Gunnarsson={{Ts.|Uhl, G. & B. Gunnarsson.}} (2001) Female genitalia in Pityohyphantes phrygianus, a spider with a skewed sex ratio. J. Zool., London 255: 367-376.
|2001-Van der Donckt-Jocqué={{Ts.|Van der Donckt, J.-F. & R. Jocqué.}} (2001) Two new species of Petaloctenus from West Africa (Araneae, Ctenidae). Annls Mus. r. Afr. cent. 285: 71-76.
|2001-Vetter={{Ts.|Vetter, R. S.}} (2001) Revision of the spider genus Neoanagraphis (Araneae, Liocranidae). J. Arachnol. 29: 1-10.
|2001-Vink={{Ts.|Vink, C. J.}} (2001) A revision of the genus Allotrochosina Roewer (Araneae: Lycosidae). Invertebr. Taxon. 15: 461-466.
|2001a-Vol={{Ts.|Vol, F.}} (2001) Description d'une deuxième espèce de Bonnetina Vol, 2000 du Mexique, B. rudloffi sp. n. (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Theraphosinae) et comparaison avec B. cyaneifemur. Arachnides 48: 7-16.
|2001b-Vol={{Ts.|Vol, F.}} (2001) Description de Pseudoligoxystre bolivianus sp. et gen. n. (Araneae: Theraphosidae: Ischnocolinae), de Bolivie. Arachnides 50: 3-9.
|2001c-Vol={{Ts.|Vol, F.}} (2001) Description d'une nouvelle espèce de Metriopelma de Bolivie: Metriopelma ledezmae sp. n. In Verdez, J.-M. & F. Cléton, Mygales: Élevage & Découverte. Bornemann, Paris, pp. 177-186.
|2001-Wang-Tso-Wu={{Ts.|Wang, X. P., I.-M. Tso & H.-Y. Wu.}} (2001) Three new Coelotes species (Araneae: Amaurobiidae) from Taiwan. Zool. Stud. 40: 127-133.
|2001-Wang-Yin={{Ts.|Wang, X. P. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) A review of the Chinese Psechridae (Araneae). J. Arachnol. 29: 330-344.
|2001a-Wesolowska={{Ts.|Wesolowska, W.}} (2001) Two new species of Thyenula Simon, 1902 from South Africa (Araneae: Salticidae). Annls zool. Warsz. 51: 261-264.
|2001b-Wesolowska={{Ts.|Wesolowska, W.}} (2001) New and rare species of the genus Asemonea O. P.-Cambridge, 1869 from Kenya (Araneae: Salticidae). Genus 12: 577-584.
|2001c-Wesolowska={{Ts.|Wesolowska, W.}} (2001) Mikrus ugandensis, a new genus and species of diminutive jumping spider from eastern Africa (Araneae: Salticidae). Genus 12: 585-588.
|2001-Wesolowska-Szeremeta={{Ts.|Wesolowska, W. & M. Szeremeta.}} (2001) A revision of the ant-like salticid genera Enoplomischus Giltay, 1931, Kima Peckham & Peckham, 1902 and Leptorchestes Thorell, 1870 (Araneae: Salticidae). Insect Syst. Evol. 32: 217-240.
|2001-Wesolowska-Szüts={{Ts.|Wesolowska, W. & T. Szüts.}} (2001) A new genus of ant-like jumping spider from Africa (Araneae: Salticidae). Annls zool. Warsz. 51: 523-528.
|2001-Xia-Zhang-Gao-Fei-Kim={{Ts.|Xia, Q., G. R. Zhang, J. C. Gao, R. Fei & J. P. Kim.}} (2001) Three new species of spiders of Erigoninae (Araneae: Lihyphiidae) from China. Korean Arachnol. 17: 161-168.
|2001a-Xu-Yin={{Ts.|Xu, X. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Heptathela from China (Araneae: Liphistiidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 10(1): 8-10.
|2001b-Xu-Yin={{Ts.|Xu, X. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Macrothele from China (Araneae: Hexathelidae). J. nat. Sci. Hunan norm. Univ. 24: 65-66, 72.
|2001-Yang-Hu={{Ts.|Yang, Z. Z. & J. L. Hu.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Sinopoda from China (Araneae: Heteropodidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 10(2): 18-20.
|2001a-Yin={{Ts.|Yin, C. M.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Heptathela and its variant type from China (Araneae: Liphistiidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 26: 297-300.
|2001b-Yin={{Ts.|Yin, C. M.}} (2001) Preliminary study on the different types of the intraspecific variants of order Araneae. Acta arachnol. sin. 10(2): 1-7.
|2001-Yin-Bao={{Ts.|Yin, C. M. & Y. H. Bao.}} (2001) Two new species of the family Titanoecidae from Hunan Province (Arachnida: Araneae). J. Changde Teachers Univ. (Nat. Sci. Ed.) 13(3): 58-61.
|2001a-Yin-Bao-Kim={{Ts.|Yin, C. M., Y. H. Bao & J. P. Kim.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Dictyna from China (Araneae: Dictynidae). Korean Arachnol. 17: 169-172.
|2001b-Yin-Bao-Kim={{Ts.|Yin, C. M., Y. H. Bao & J. P. Kim.}} (2001) A new species of genus Pasilobus from China (Araneae: Araneidae). Korean Arachnol. 17: 173-176.
|2001-Yin-Yan={{Ts.|Yin, C. M. & H. M. Yan.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Mallinella from Hunan, China (Araneae: Zodariidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 10: 5-7.
|2001a-Yoshida={{Ts.|Yoshida, H.}} (2001) Two new species of the genera Chrysso and Achaearanea (Araneae: Theridiidae) from the Nansei Islands, Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 11-14.
|2001b-Yoshida={{Ts.|Yoshida, H.}} (2001) The spider genera Robertus, Enoplognatha, Steatoda and Crustulina (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan. Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 31-48.
|2001c-Yoshida={{Ts.|Yoshida, H.}} (2001) A revision of the Japanese genera and species of the subfamily Theridiinae (Araneae: Theridiidae). Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 157-181.
|2001d-Yoshida={{Ts.|Yoshida, H.}} (2001) The genus Rhomphaea (Araneae: Theridiidae) from Japan, with notes on the subfamily Argyrodinae. Acta arachn. Tokyo 50: 183-192.
|2001-Żabka={{Ts.|Żabka, M.}} (2001) Salticidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from the Oriental, Australian and Pacific regions, XIV. The genus Adoxotoma Simon. Rec. West. Aust. Mus. 20: 323-332.
|2001-ZhangF-Song={{Ts.|Zhang, F. & D. X. Song.}} (2001) Three new species of the genus Zelotes (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from Taihang Mountains, China. J. Hebei Univ. (Nat. Sci. Ed.) 21: 158-162.
|2001-Zhang-Song-Zhu={{Ts.|Zhang, F., D. X. Song & M. S. Zhu.}} (2001) On five new species of the family Gnaphosidae (Arachnida: Araneae) from China. Acta zool. sin. 47(Suppl.): 52-58.
|2001-Zhang-Chen-Zhu={{Ts.|Zhang, J. X., H. M. Chen & M. S. Zhu.}} (2001) Three new species of the genus Steatoda from Guizhou (Araneae: Theridiidae). J. Hebei Univ. (nat. Sci.) 21: 305-309.
|2001-ZhangJX-Song={{Ts.|Zhang, J. X. & D. X. Song.}} (2001) One new spider species of the genus Gnaphosa (Araneae: Gnaphosidae) from China. J. Hebei Univ. (nat. Sci.) 21: 78-79.
|2001a-Zhang-Yin={{Ts.|Zhang, Y. J. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Coelotes from China (Araneae: Amaurobiidae). Acta arachnol. sin. 10: 11-12.
|2001b-Zhang-Yin={{Ts.|Zhang, Y. J. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) Two new species of the genus Gnaphosa from China (Araneae: Gnaphosidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 26: 479-482.
|2001c-Zhang-Yin={{Ts.|Zhang, Y. J. & C. M. Yin.}} (2001) Two new species of the genus Coronilla from China (Araneae: Amaurobiidae). Acta zootaxon. sin. 26: 487-490.
|2001-Zhu-Song-Li={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S., D. X. Song & T. H. Li.}} (2001) A new species of the family Theraphosidae, with taxonomic study on the species Selenocosmia hainana (Arachnida: Araneae). J. Baoding Teachers Coll. 14(2): 1-6.
|2001-Zhu-Zhang-Chen={{Ts.|Zhu, M. S., J. X. Zhang & H. M. Chen.}} (2001) A new species of the genus Wendilgarda from China (Araneae: Theridiosomatidae). Acta. zool. Taiwanica 12: 1-7.
|2001-Zonstein={{Ts.|Zonstein, S. L.}} (2001) Notes on allocation of the mygalomorph spider genus Anemesia Pocock, 1895 (Araneae), with description of a new congener from Tajikistan. Tethys ent. Res. 3: 11-14.

|#default={{Brontabel-2002 e.v.|1={{{1}}}}}<!---Indien geen resultaat kijk eerst in vervolgtabel-->

}}|}}<noinclude>{{sjablooninfo|1=
Het eerste ingevulde argument in het sjabloon {{tl|Brontabel|argument}} wordt gebruikt als sleutel  om de bijhorende bron op te zoeken.<br />

Indien er geen goede sleutel wordt opgegeven wordt de [[:Categorie:Wikipedia:Bron toevoegen]] ingevoegd.

* De in deze tabel opgenomen bronnen worden gebruikt voor bronvermeldingen in dierenlemaa's. De vermelding (sleutel) kan op diverse manieren.
** Voorkeur
*** xxxxy-zz; xxxx=jaar van de bron; y=volgletter indien dezelfde auteur meerdere bronnen in één jaar heeft; zz=naam auteur, indien meerdere auteuren dan streepje tussen namen, dus bijv: 2010b-Jansen-Vries
*** xxxxy-zz; Indien meerdere auteurs met dezelfde achternaam dan Achternaam-Voorletters opnemen
** Vlinder. Wordt gebruikt voor bronnen m.b.t. vlinders. De nummering van de bronnen is als volge:
*** xxyyzz; xx=Achternaamauteur;yy=publicatiejaar;zz=evt gevolgd door volletter indien meerder publicaties van dezelfde auteur in 1 jaar. Goede bron voor publicaties is www.worldcat.org.
** Vis. Wordt gebruikt voor bronnen m.b.t. vissen. De nummering van de bronnen (=sleutel) is als volgt:
*** xxxxx. Nummer,zonder voorafgaande letter, citering van bron zoals opgenomen in '''fishbase'''.<ref>{{en}} http://www.fishbase.org/ Froese, R. and D. Pauly. Editors. 2009.FishBase. World Wide Web electronic publication. www.fishbase.org, version (01/2009).</ref>
*** Cxxxxx. Nummer, voorafgegaan door de letter C, citering zoals opgenomen in '''Catalog of Fishes'''.<ref>http://research.calacademy.org/research/ichthyology/catalog/fishcatmain.asp Zoeken op referentie</ref>

{{Appendix}}
}}
[[Category:引文模板]]
</noinclude>