<includeonly><!-- 在這裡加入模板的保護標識 --></includeonly><noinclude>{{template doc page viewed directly}}</noinclude>
<!-- 在本行下編輯模板說明 -->

這是 {{tl|category other}} 元模板。

本模板幫助其他模板偵測頁面是否為「Category:」或「其他」類型。

== 用法 ==

This template usually takes two parameters, like this:

<pre>
{{category other | Category page text | Other pages text }}
</pre>

If the template is on a "Category:" page, it will return this:

:{{category other | demospace=category | Category page text | Other pages text }}

If the template is on any other page, it will return this:

:{{category other | Category page text | Other pages text }}

A typical usage case could be to make it so that a template only adds a category when on category pages. Thus not adding other pages that just show the template. Like this:

<pre>
{{category other | [[Category:Some category maintenance category]] }}
</pre>

Or to warn that a template should not be used on other pages:

<pre>
{{category other | | This template should only be used on category pages. }}
</pre>

Note that in the first case above the "other" parameter was not used, and in the second example the "category" parameter was left empty.

== Demospace ==

For testing and demonstration purposes this template can take a parameter named '''demospace'''. 

* If it has the value '''category''' it returns the category page text.
* It if has the value '''other''' or any other value such as the name of some other namespace it returns the other pages text.
* If the parameter is empty or undefined, the actual page type determines the result.

Like this:

<pre>
{{category other 
| Category page text 
| Other pages text 
| demospace = category
}}
</pre>

No matter on what kind of page the code above is used it will return this:

:{{category other 
| Category page text 
| Other pages text 
| demospace = category
}}

You can make it so your template also understands the '''demospace''' parameter. That means you can demonstrate the different appearances of your template in the documentation for your template. Then do like this:

<pre>
{{category other 
| Category page text 
| Other pages text 
| demospace = {{{demospace|}}}
}}
</pre>

== 技術細節 ==

This template detects "Category talk:" pages as type '''other'''.

This template works like {{tl|main talk other}}, for more examples and technical details see full documentation there. 

== 參見 ==
{{namespace detect see also}}

<includeonly>{{Sandbox other||<!-- 本行下加入模板的分類，跨維基連結加入Wikidata（參見[[Wikipedia:Wikidata]]） -->
[[Category:命名空間操作模板]]
[[Category:分类命名空间模板]]
}}</includeonly>