{{Documentation subpage}}
{{缺乏中文说明}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE. -->

==Usage==
This template indicates that an article incorporates information from the [[Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition|Eleventh Edition of the ''Encyclopædia Britannica'']] a work now in the [[public domain]].

If the Wikipedia article incorporates a copy of '''text''' from (or close paraphrasing of) an article in the [[Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition|Eleventh Edition of the ''Encyclopædia Britannica'']], then use the template {{tl|EB1911}} which prepends an attribution string to the citation (see the [[WP:PLAGIARISM|plagiarism]] guidline).

===Summary===
The template can be placed in different locations and depending on the what it is required the parameters can be mixed and matched:

{|class=wikitable
|-
!Parameters||Example||Note
|-
|<nowiki>{{Cite EB1911|wstitle=</nowiki>''EB name''<nowiki>}}</nowiki>
|{{Cite EB1911|wstitle=Alfred the Great}}
|Use '''wstitle=''EB name''''' if the article exists on [[Wikisource]] if not use '''title=''EB name'' '''.
|-
|<nowiki>{{Cite EB1911|title=|url=|first=|last=|volume=|pages=}}</nowiki>
|{{Cite EB1911|title=Alfred the Great|first=Charles|last=Plummer|url=http://www.archive.org/stream/encyclopaediabri01chisrich#page/582/mode/1up|volume=1|pages=582–584}}
|Some additional information: '''title''' instead of ''wstitle'', '''url''' to the external page instead of link to Wikisource; the '''first''' and '''last''' names of the author of the article, the '''volume''' and '''page [number]s'''.
|}

===Detailed notes===
This template is wrapper around {{tl|cite encyclopedia}}. In its default mode it attributes text to an article from Eleventh Edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica.

This template automatically sets some of the parameters passed into {{tl|cite encyclopedia}} for example "publisher = Cambridge University Press". Over and above the standard parameter passed into {{tl|cite encyclopedia}} there are some additional parameters and those are listed hereafter in a separate table from the table of parameters passed into {{tl|cite encyclopedia}}.<ref group=nb>For backwards compatibility with {{tl|Wikisource1911Enc citation}} and {{tl|1911EB}}, this template takes two unnamed parameters the first the ''article name'' the second ''a comment'' but these are deprecated. They should not be used as the functionality may be removed in later versions of this template.</ref>

Minimum is: '''<nowiki>{{Cite EB1911 |article=</nowiki>''EB article name''<nowiki>}}</nowiki>''' or '''<nowiki>{{Cite EB1911 |wstitle=</nowiki>''EB article name''<nowiki>}}</nowiki>'''<ref group=nb>It will also work with no parameters, but that set a category flagging that no article name has been given, as it is not much use to the reader to inform them that a Wikipeda article contains some text copied from somewhere in the 29-volumes of the Eleventh Edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica!</ref> 

Full set is: '''<nowiki>{{Cite EB1911 |wstitle= |display= |article= |no-icon= |short= |footnote= |author= |last= |first= |authorlink= |coauthors= |title= |url= |accessdate= |volume= |page= |pages= |ref=}}</nowiki>'''

{|class=wikitable
|+Additional parameters
!Parameter ||Note
|-
|article=''EB name''||If set is assigned to ''title''. If ''title'' is set ''article'' is ignored.
|-
|author=''author name''||Assigned to ''last'' ignored if ''last'' is set.
|-
|wstitle=''name of the article on Wikisource'' ||If set, set link to EB article on Wikisource, and unsets ''title'' and ''url'' if they are also set.
|-
|no-icon=1 ||Suppresses the lead icon (useful with {{tl|Wikisource-inline}}).
|-
|short=1 ||Suppresses publisher and editor display.
|-
|display=''label for Wikisource link''||If set, this text is used as a label when linking to EB article on Wikisource
|}

{|class=wikitable
|+Parameters passed into {{tl|cite encyclopedia}}
!Parameter||Set to||Notes
|-
|last= ||author= or last= ||If ''author='' and ''last='' are set the value of ''last='' is used.
|-
|first= ||first= ||Set to the value of ''first='' or not set
|-
|authorlink= ||  authorlink= || Set to the value of ''authorlink='' or not set
|-
|coauthors= ||  coauthors= || Unlikely to be needed but can be set
|-
|editor-first= ||Hugh || Automatically set within the template unless '''short''' is set
|-
|editor-last= ||Chisholm || Automatically set within the template unless '''short''' is set
|-
|encyclopedia= || [[Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition|Encyclopædia Britannica]]||Automatically set within the template
|-
|title= ||wstitle= or title= or article=||Set to ''wstitle='' if set, if not to ''title='' if set, if not to ''article='' if set, if not set then left blank.
|-
|url= ||url= || Set to the value of url= unless ''wstitle='' is set in which case it is not set.
|-
|accessdate= || accessdate= || Set to the value of ''accessdate='' or not set
|-
| language=||  ||Not set 
|-
| edition= ||11th ||Set by default within the template, can be overridden
|-
| date= || ||Not set (see year)
|-
| year= ||1911||Set by default within the template, can be overridden
|-
| month= || ||Not set
|-
| publisher= ||Cambridge University Press ||Automatically set within the template unless '''short''' is set
|-
| volume= ||volume= ||Set to the value of ''volume='' or not set
|-
| location= || ||Not set
|-
| id= || ||Not set
|-
| isbn= || ||Not set
|-
| oclc= || ||Not set
|-
| doi= || ||Not set
|-
| page= ||page=||Set to the value of ''page='' or not set
|-
| pages= ||pages=||Set to the value of ''pages='' or not set
|-
| quote=|| ||Not set
|-
| ref= ||ref =||Set to the value of ''ref='' or not set
|}

== Hidden categories ==
Depending on the parameters passed into this template, it adds the following hidden categories to the articles in which it is used:
*[[:Category:Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with an unnamed parameter]]
*[[:Category:Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with no article parameter]]
*[[:Category:Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference]]
*[[:Category:Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica without Wikisource reference]]

For an overview group category of the above see: [[:Category:含有1911年版大英百科全书内容的维基百科条目]].

== See also ==
* [[Wikipedia:1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica]]—for information on usage of the material.
* {{tl|EB1911}} Attribute an EB 1911 article.
* {{tl|Sect1911}} Attribute a section to EB 1911.
* {{tl|EB1911 poster}} display a EB 1911 Wikisource article in a top box on the right.
* {{Tl|1911 POV}}—for articles with potential POV issues related to using information from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica.

==Notes==
{{reflist|group=nb}}

<includeonly><!--
++++ PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AFTER THIS LINE, INSIDE INCLUDEONLY TAGS, THANK YOU. -->
{{DEFAULTSORT:Eb1911 Cite}}
[[Category:大英百科全书]]
[[Category:引用模板]]
[[Category:维基文库链接模板]]
[[ar:قالب:Cite EB1911]]
[[ja:Template:Cite EB1911]]
[[ml:ഫലകം:Cite EB1911]]
</includeonly>