{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- EDIT TEMPLATE DOCUMENTATION BELOW THIS LINE -->
{{Template_notes
|Use this template when you have identified a serious issue regarding [[WP:Neutral point of view]].  
|[[Wikipedia:Tagging pages for problems#Constructive tagging|Drive-by tagging]] is strongly discouraged. The editor who adds the tag should first discuss concerns on the talk page, pointing to specific issues that are actionable within the content policies, and should add this tag only as a last resort. In the absence of such a discussion, or where it remains unclear what the [[WP:NPOV|NPOV]] violation is, the tag may be removed by any editor.
|The purpose of this group of templates is to attract editors with different viewpoints to edit articles that need additional insight. This template should not be used as a [[badge of shame]].  Do not use this template to "warn" readers about the article.
|This template should only be applied to articles that are reasonably believed to lack a neutral point of view. The neutral point of view is determined by the prevalence of a perspective in [[WP:V|high-quality, independent, reliable secondary sources]], not by its prevalence among Wikipedia editors or the public.
}}

== When to use ==
Place this template on an article when you have identified a serious issue of balance and the lack of a [[Wikipedia:Neutral point of view|neutral point of view]], and you wish to attract editors with different viewpoints to the article. Please also explain on the article's talk page why you are adding this tag, identifying specific issues that are actionable within Wikipedia's content policies.

An unbalanced or non-neutral article is one that does not fairly represent the balance of perspectives of high-quality, reliable [[secondary sources]]. A balanced article presents mainstream views as being mainstream, and minority views as being minority views. The personal views of Wikipedia editors or the public are irrelevant.

=== When to remove ===
This template is not meant to be a permanent resident on any article.  Remove this template whenever:

# There is consensus on the talkpage or the [[Wikipedia:Neutral point of view/Noticeboard|NPOV Noticeboard]] that the issue has been resolved
# It is not clear what the neutrality issue is, and no satisfactory explanation has been given
# In the absence of any discussion, or if the discussion has become dormant.

== How to use ==

Place {{Tlx|Fringe theories|date{{=}}{{CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{CURRENTYEAR}}}} at the top of the disputed article, then explain your reasons on the article's [[WP:TP|talk page]]. To specify the section of the talk page, use {{Tlx|Fringe theories|talk{{=}}talk page section name}}. If the date is not included it will probably be added later by a [[WP:BOT]].

This template will categorize tagged articles in [[:Category:Articles needing more viewpoints]] or a dated subcategory thereof.

This template should only be used in the main (article) namespace. Do not place this template on talk pages, user pages, [[WP:PG|policies and guidelines]], or other pages.

* This [[Wikipedia:Template|template]] is a [[Wikipedia:Avoid self-references|self-reference]].
* Please do not [[Wikipedia:Subst|subst:]] this template.

== Alternatives ==

If the dispute involves only a section of an article, use {{Tl|Fringe-section}}.

If the dispute involves non-neutral presentation of viewpoints, but not actually [[WP:Fringe theories|fringe theories]], use {{Tl|POV}} or {{Tl|POV-section}}. See below for a list of other similar templates.

For suspected POV issues which are not disputed, consider the {{Tl|POV-check}} template instead.  See [[Wikipedia:NPOV dispute]] for more info.

For issues relating to article balance due to insufficient coverage of the subject rather than editorial bias, use {{Tl|Cleanup-weighted}}

{{Wikipedia:Resolving Disputes/Templates}}

<includeonly>
<!-- ADD CATEGORIES BELOW THIS LINE -->
[[Category:爭議模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]

</includeonly>