{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE. -->

本模板用以標示條目主題包含在大眾文化方面的小眾、不重要、或關係甚淺的項目清單。
This template is used to indicate that an article with "{{tsl|en|Wikipedia:"In popular culture" content|Wikipedia:在大眾文化|在大眾文化}}" lists that may contain a long list of minor or unimportant references. See [[Wikipedia:瑣碎章節]] and [[Wikipedia:Handling trivia]] for further guidance. It may be placed at the top of a section, or at the top of the article if the issue affects the whole article.

==用法==
使用[[WP:Twinkle]]工具掛載本模板，或複製{{tlx|1={{BASEPAGENAME}}|2=time=<nowiki>{{subst:#time:c}}</nowiki>}}貼在條目頂部。

*本模板標記條目歸類至[[:Category:需要清理的內容瑣碎條目]]。
*不要[[Wikipedia:替換引用|替換引用]]（subst:）本模板。

If the issue pertains only to a particular section, add {{Tlx|In popular culture|section|date{{=}}{{CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{CURRENTYEAR}}}} to the top of it. The word "section" can also be changed to other words as necessary, such as "list" or "template."

A {{para|talk}} parameter is allowed; setting this to the name of the subsection on the talk page will cause a link to appear to it.

The {{para|small}} parameter can be used. Setting this to "left" will cause the template to reduce in size and appear on the left of the page.

This template also includes support for using the {{para|date}} parameter. Adding this parameter sorts the article into subcategories of [[:Category:需要清理的內容瑣碎條目]] and out of the parent category, allowing the oldest problems to be identified and dealt with first. A [[Wikipedia:Bot policy|bot]] will add this parameter if it is omitted. Be careful '''''not''''' to abbreviate the date, because then it will automatically add a redlinked category instead of the correct category.

== 重定向 ==
* [[Template:Inpopularculture]]

== 參見 ==
* [[:Category:清理模板]]
* [[Template:Example farm]]
* [[Template:Fictionrefs]]
* {{tsl|en|Wikipedia:"In popular culture" content|Wikipedia:在大眾文化}}

<includeonly>{{#ifeq:{{SUBPAGENAME}}|sandbox | |
<!-- 本行下加入模板的分類，跨維基連結加入Wikidata（參見[[Wikipedia:Wikidata]]） -->
[[Category:清理模板]]
[[Category:列表清理模板]]

}}</includeonly>