{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE -->

=== Usage ===

<pre><nowiki>
{{Infobox football club season
 | club               = 
 | season             = 
 | manager            = 
 | mgrtitle           = 
 | chairman           = 
 | chrtitle           = 
 | league             = 
 | league result      = 
 | cup1               = 
 | cup1 result        = 
 | cup2               = 
 | cup2 result        = 
 | league topscorer   = 
 | season topscorer   = 
 | highest attendance = 
 | lowest attendance  = 
 | average attendance = 
 | pattern_la1 = |pattern_b1 = |pattern_ra1 = |pattern_sh1 = |pattern_so1 =
 | leftarm1 = |body1 = |rightarm1 = |shorts1 = |socks1 = 
 | pattern_la2 = |pattern_b2 = |pattern_ra2 = |pattern_sh2 = |pattern_so2 =
 | leftarm2 = |body2 = |rightarm2 = |shorts2 = |socks2 = 
 | pattern_la3 = |pattern_b3 = |pattern_ra3 = |pattern_sh3 = |pattern_so3 =
 | leftarm3 = |body3 = |rightarm3 = |shorts3 = |socks3 = 
 | prevseason         = 
 | nextseason         = 
}}</nowiki></pre>

=== Parameters ===

*<nowiki>{{{club}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The commonly-used name of the club.
*<nowiki>{{{season}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The related season in the form YYYY–YYYY (where – stands for <nowiki>&mdash;</nowiki>).
*<nowiki>{{{manager}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The manager of the club in the season. If two or more managers served for the club during the season, you can indicate all of them by splitting them in different rows using <nowiki><br /></nowiki> to divide their names.
*<nowiki>{{{chairman}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The chairman of the club.
*<nowiki>{{{league}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The league in which the club played in the given season.
*<nowiki>{{{league result}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The final result achieved in the season.
*<nowiki>{{{cup''n''}}}</nowiki> &mdash; A cup in which the club played in the season. You can indicate up to 6 different cups just by properly setting ''n'' (<nowiki>{{{cup1}}}</nowiki> for instance).
*<nowiki>{{{cup''n'' result}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The final result achieved in the cup by the club during the season.
*<nowiki>{{{league topscorer}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The club topscorer in the domestic league level, and the number of scored goals, in the form "''Football Player (goals)''".
*<nowiki>{{{mgrtitle}}}</nowiki> &mdash; If the club manager is known by a different title (e.g. Coach, Head Coach, First team coach, etc.), that title should be noted here.
*<nowiki>{{{chrtitle}}}</nowiki> &mdash; If the club chairman is known by a different title (e.g. President, Owner, Chief Executive, etc.), that title should be noted here.
*<nowiki>{{{season topscorer}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The club topscorer in the whole season (also featuring cup matches), and the number of scored goals, in the form "''Football Player (goals)''".
*<nowiki>{{{highest attendance}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The highest home attendance enjoyed by the club during the season;
*<nowiki>{{{lowest attendance}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The lowest home attendance enjoyed by the club during the season;
*<nowiki>{{{average attendance}}}</nowiki> &mdash; The average home attendance enjoyed by the club during the domestic season;
*<nowiki>{{{prevseason}}}</nowiki> &mdash; Link to the article for the club's previous season;
*<nowiki>{{{nextseason}}}</nowiki> &mdash; Link to the article for the club's next season

=== Example ===

The input:

<pre><nowiki>{{Infobox football club season
| club = Footy Town F.C.
| season = 2019-20
| manager = [[Lucas Boss]]
| chairman = [[Alan Money]]
| league = [[超级联赛]]
| league result = 7th (UEFA Intertoto Cup)
| cup1 = [[足总杯]] | cup1 result = Third Round
| cup2 = [[联赛杯]] | cup2 result = Second Round
| league topscorer = [[Patrick Scorer]] (17)
| season topscorer = [[Patrick Scorer]] (20)
| highest attendance = 16,044 (vs [[曼联足球俱乐部]], 16 March 2020)
| lowest attendance = 166 (vs [[卡迪夫城足球俱乐部]], 14 November 2019)
| average attendance = 10,121
| prevseason = [[Footy Town F.C. 2018-19|2018-19]]
| nextseason = [[Footy Town F.C. 2020-21|2020-21]]
}}</nowiki></pre>

produces:

{{Infobox football club season
| club = Footy Town F.C.
| season = 2019-20
| manager = [[Lucas Boss]]
| chairman = [[Alan Money]]
| league = [[超级联赛]]
| league result = 7th (UEFA Intertoto Cup)
| cup1 = [[足总杯]] | cup1 result = Third Round
| cup2 = [[联赛杯]] | cup2 result = Second Round
| league topscorer = [[Patrick Scorer]] (17)
| season topscorer = [[Patrick Scorer]] (20)
| highest attendance = 16,044 (vs [[曼联足球俱乐部]], 16 March 2020)
| lowest attendance = 166 (vs [[卡迪夫城足球俱乐部]], 14 November 2019)
| average attendance = 10,121
| prevseason = [[Footy Town F.C. 2018-19|2018-19]]
| nextseason = [[Footy Town F.C. 2020-21|2020-21]]
}}

=== Microformat ===

{{UF-hcard-org}}

<includeonly>
[[Category:足球信息框模板]]
</includeonly>