{{Documentation subpage}}
{{Intricate template}}
{{Uses Infobox settlement}}
__NOTOC__
<!---PLEASE ADD METADATA TO THE <includeonly> SECTION AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE--->
本模板適用於描述[[巴勒斯坦民族權力機構]]管轄下的[[巴勒斯坦地區]]。以色列當局的城市則可以使用{{tl|Infobox Israel municipality}}模板。

==用法==
信息框開頭必須加上'''<nowiki>{{Infobox Palestine municipality}}</nowiki>'''模板，如下所示：

<pre>
{{Infobox Palestine municipality
|name=
|image=
|caption=
|emblem=
|emblem_type=
|image_map=
|map_caption=
|arname=
|hename=
|meaning=
|founded=
|type=
|typefrom=
|altOffSp=
|altUnoSp=
|governorate=
|population=
|popyear=
|area=
|areakm=
|latd= |latm= |lats= |latNS=N
|longd= |longm= |longs= |longEW=E
|palgrid=
|mayor=
}}
</pre>

==範例==
{{Infobox Palestine municipality
|name=加薩市
|emblem=
|emblem_type=Coat of arms of Gaza
|image = Gaza City.JPG
|caption = 加薩市空照圖，2007年。
|arname=<big>غزة</big>
|meaning=
|founded=前15世紀
|type=muna
|typefrom=1994
|altOffSp=Ghazzah
|altUnoSp=Gaza City
|governorate=gz
|population=409,680
|popyear=2006年
|area=45,000人
|areakm=45
|latd=31 |latm=31 |lats= |latNS=N
|longd=34 |longm=27|longs= |longEW=E
|palgrid=099/101
|mayor=Rafiq Tawfiq al-Makki
}}<pre>
{{Infobox Palestine municipality
|name=Gaza
|emblem=Gaza coat.png
|emblem_type=Coat of arms of Gaza
|image = Gaza City.JPG
|caption = Skyline of Gaza, 2007
|arname=غزة
|meaning=
|founded=15th Century BCE
|type=muna
|typefrom=1994
|altOffSp=Ghazzah
|altUnoSp=Gaza City
|governorate=gz
|population=409,680
|popyear=2006
|area=45,000
|areakm=45
|latd=31 |latm=31 |lats= |latNS=N
|longd=34 |longm=27|longs= |longEW=E
|palgrid=099/101
|mayor=Rafiq Tawfiq al-Makki
}}</pre>

==參數==
*'''name'''：name of the city
*'''image'''（可選填）： top image
*'''caption'''（可選填）： caption for top image
*'''emblem'''（可選填）： logo of the city, basically the entire image file, e.g. ''Ramallah.jpg''
*'''emblem_type'''（可選填）： optional caption for the logo
*'''arname'''： name/spelling of the city in Arabic
*'''hebname'''（可選填）： name/spelling of the city in Hebrew
*'''meaning'''（可選填）： name meaning
*'''founded'''（可選填）： year in which the municipality was founded
*'''type'''： has 6 possible values：
**muna： a class A municipality (city)
**munb： a class B municipality (town)
**munc： a class C municipality (town)
**mund： a class D municipality (village council)
**ldca： a class A local development committee
**ldcb： a class B local development committee
**ref：  a refugee camp
**clus： a village cluster
*'''typefrom'''（可選填）： when it was declared a city/local council
*'''altOffSp'''（可選填）： alternative official transliterations, e.g. Tulkarem
*'''altUnoSp'''（可選填）： alternative unofficial transliterations, e.g. Tul Qarem
*'''governorate'''： governorate of the municipality, can have 16 possible values：
**jn： Jenin Governorate
**tb： Tubas Governorate
**tk： Tulkarm Governorate
**nb： Nablus Governorate
**ql： Qalqilya Governorate
**sl： Salfit Governorate
**rb： Ramallah and Al-Bireh Governorate
**jr： Jericho Governorate
**jl： Jerusalem Governorate
**bl： Bethlehem Governorate
**hb： Hebron Governorate
**ng： North Gaza Governorate
**gz： Gaza Governorate
**db： Deir el-Balah Governorate
**ky： Khan Yunis Governorate
**rf： Rafah Governorate
*'''population'''： population of the municipality
*'''popyear'''（可選填）： year in which the census (or estimate, since the last complete census was in 1995) was made
*'''area'''： jurisdiction of the municipality, dunams (the local measurement unit for measuring jurisdiction).  '''RAW unformatted numbers only (i.e. 5000 not 5,000)''' as they will be converted to km² and sq&nbsp;mi automatically.  Do not include any footnotes or references; try to place those into the main text of the article.
*'''areakm'''（可選填）： jurisdiction of the municipality, km
*'''mayor'''（可選填）： head of municipality (either mayor or head of council)
*'''latd'''（可選填）： Latitude degrees. Can also be used for decimal degrees.
*'''latm'''（可選填）： Latitude minutes. 
*'''lats'''（可選填）：
*'''latNS'''（可選填）： Enter a value of '''N'''
*'''longd'''（可選填）： Longitude degrees. Can also be used for decimal degrees.
*'''longm'''（可選填）：
*'''longs'''（可選填）：
*'''longEW'''（可選填）： Enter a value of '''E'''
*'''palgrid'''（可選填）： Position on Palestine grid (two 3-digit numbers or two 4-digit numbers, separated by "/"; remember that EW comes before NS).
*'''pushpin_label_position'''（可選填）： The position of the label on the pushpin map relative to the pushpin coordinate marker. Valid options are {left, right, top, bottom, none}. If this field is not specified, the default value is right.
*'''pushpin_map_caption'''（可選填）： For placing a caption under the map.

==微格式==
{{UF-hcard-geo}}


<includeonly>
[[Category:巴勒斯坦行政區劃模板| Municipality]]
[[Category:城市信息框模板|Palestine municipality]]
[[Category:亞洲國家行政區劃信息框模板]]
</includeonly>