{{documentation subpage}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE. -->

<includeonly>{{intricate template}}</includeonly>

==使用方法==
'''本模板不可单独使用，它必须跟随{{tl|Infobox Aircraft Begin}}使用'''。

本模版提供了飞机的通用数据和类型（及子类型），但是"没有"技术规格。模版以模块化的形式设计，使其可以与其他信息框，尤其像是{{tl|Infobox aircraft career}}之类的信息框共同使用。 

{{tl|Infobox Aircraft Begin}}和本模版（以及{{tl|Infobox aircraft career}}等）必须包含在<code>{|</code>和<code>|}</code>之内以形成维基表格的格式（参见：[[Help:表格]]）。

===例子===
For an article on an aircraft type, use:

<code>
<nowiki>{|{{</nowiki>Infobox Aircraft Begin<br>
 |''parameters go here''<br>
<nowiki>}}{{</nowiki>Infobox aircraft type<br>
 |''parameters go here''<br>
<nowiki>}}</nowiki><br>
<nowiki>|}</nowiki>
</code>

For a case where the only example built of a particular aircraft type also had an individually noteworthy career (eg, ''[[The Spirit of St. Louis]]'', use:

<code>
<nowiki>{|{{</nowiki>Infobox Aircraft Begin<br>
 |''parameters go here''<br>
<nowiki>}}{{</nowiki>Inbobox Aircraft Type<br>
 |''parameters go here''<br>
<nowiki>}}{{</nowiki>Inbobox Aircraft Career<br>
 |''parameters go here''<br>
<nowiki>}}</nowiki><br>
<nowiki>|}</nowiki>
</code>

===变量===
;type :The aircraft's role, eg: airliner, military trainer aircraft, Agricultutal aircraft
;national origin : The country where the aircraft was first manufactured. Use the main nation (ie. UK), not constituent country (England); don't use "EU". List collaborative programs of only 2 or 3 nations; for more than 3, use "Multi-national
;manufacturer : The firm which manufactured the aircraft. 
;designer : The person or persons who designed the aircraft. Only appropriate for single designers, not project leaders
;first flight : The date that the aircraft first flew. If this hasn't happened, skip this field - don't speculate.
;introduction : Date the aircraft entered or will enter military or revenue service
;retired : Date the aircraft left military or revenue service. If vague or more than a few dates, skip this
;status : Status of the programme, e.g. "Prototypes only", "Abandoned project". In most cases, redundant; use sparingly
;primary user : list only one user; for military aircraft, this is a nation or a service arm. Please DON'T add those tiny flags, as they limit horizontal space. 
;more users : Limited to three in total; separate using <code><br /></code>
;produced : Years in production (eg. 1970-1999) if still in active use but no longer built
;number built : Number of flight capable aircraft completed.
;program cost : Total program cost
;unit cost : Incremental or flyaway cost for military or retail price for commercial aircraft
;developed from : The aircraft which formed the basis for this aircraft
;variants with their own articles : Variants OF this aircraft

==參見==
目前可用的Infobox Aircraft模板的其它模塊是：

; {{tl|Infobox aircraft begin}} : 在每一個模板中都要包括的模塊，它處理機名、圖片、圖片名、以及其它模塊的格式。

; {{tl|Infobox aircraft type}} : General data fields relevant to an aircraft type (or subtype), such as role, manufacturer, number produced, date of first flight (but ''not'' technical specifications)

; {{tl|Infobox aircraft career}} : Data fields relevant to an individually significant airframe, such as construction number, registration number, military serial, current preservation status.

; {{tl|Infobox aircraft engine}} : General data fields relevant to an aircraft engine, such as type, manufacturer, major applications (but ''not'' technical specifications)

; {{tl|Seriesbox aircraft categories}} : Non-parameterised seriesbox for broad categories of aircraft, such as airship, helicopter, glider.


<includeonly>

{{#ifeq:{{{noheader|}}}|yes||

[[Category:軍事信息框模板|空]]
[[Category:航空交通信息框模板|A]]
[[ar:قالب:معلومات نوع الطائرة]]
[[ka:თარგი:ინფოდაფა თვითმფრინავი ტიპი]]
}}</includeonly>