<includeonly><!-- 在這裡加入模板的保護標識 --></includeonly><noinclude>{{Documentation subpage}}</noinclude>
<!-- 在本行下編輯模板說明 -->

{{Generic template demo
 |name |image |imagesize |alt |caption |titles |birth_date |birth_place |home_town |residence |death_date |death_place
 |venerated_in |beatified_date |beatified_place |beatified_by |canonized_date |canonized_place |canonized_by
 |major_shrine |feast_day |attributes |patronage |issues |suppressed_date |suppressed_by
 |influences |influenced |tradition |major_works
}}

To use this template, copy the wikitext below and paste it in the "Veneration" section of the article. If the article is not divided into sections, it should be placed on top. Then, fill out the data fields. You can omit any unused fields.

== 使用方法 ==
使用時請利用以下模板。一般來說，本表格建議放在條目最頂端，又或在相關章節處。頭四項參數必須輸入，其他可省略。
<pre style="overflow:auto;">
{{Infobox saint
| name = 
| image = 
| imagesize = 
| alt = 
| caption = 
| titles = 
| birth_name =
| birth_date = 
| birth_place = 
| home_town = 
| residence = 
| death_date = 
| death_place = 
| venerated_in = 
| beatified_date = 
| beatified_place = 
| beatified_by = 
| canonized_date = 
| canonized_place = 
| canonized_by = 
| major_shrine = 
| feast_day = 
| attributes = 
| patronage = 
| issues = 
| suppressed_date = 
| suppressed_by = 
| influences = 
| influenced = 
| tradition = 
| major_works = 
}}
</pre>

==參數==
=== 必需 ===
: '''name''' The name under which the saint is venerated or best known. This should usually be the same as the article name.
: '''feast_day''' Saint's principal feast day. (Roman Catholic and Orthodox calendars often have different dates for the same saint. If a saint is venerated by both, it would be good to indicated both days and which is which, e.g., for St. John the Apostle: Dec. 27 (Roman Catholic), May 8 (Orthodox).)

=== 可省略 ===
: '''venerated_in''' Denomination(s) where this saint is recognized.
: '''image''' An icon, statue, etc. Use the name of the image file only. Do not include "File:"
: '''imagesize''' Width of the image. Use appropriate units, e.g. 150px for 150 pixels. If this parameter is omitted, 250px will be used.
: '''caption''' Caption for image, if necessary.
: '''birth_date''' Date of birth. Can be approximate.
: '''birth_place''' Place of birth
: '''death_date''' Date of death. Can be approximate.
: '''death_place''' Place of death
: '''titles''' Title under which saint is venerated. See the [[Wikipedia:WikiProject Saints/Style Guidelines#Terms and Titles|Style Guidelines]] for a definition of titles. 
: '''beatified_date''' Date of beatification, if applicable.
: '''beatified_place''' Place where beatification was announced, if applicable.
: '''beatified_by''' Authority for beatification. In Catholicism, this will be the Pope of the time.
: '''canonized_date''' Date of canonization, if applicable.
: '''canonized_place''' Place where canonization/glorification was solemnly performed.
: '''canonized_by''' Authority for canonization. In Catholicism this will be the Pope of the time; in Orthodoxy is usually a synod.
: '''attributes''' Standard iconographic elements. Usually pontifical, episcopal, etc. insignia, tools of martyrdom and so forth.
: '''patronage''' People, places, diseases...
: '''major_shrine''' Usually the site of the saint's relics or principal icon
: '''suppressed_date''' If the Roman Catholic Church has suppressed the cult of this saint, give the date here.
: '''suppressed_by''' The Pope under whose authority this saint was removed from official veneration.
: '''issues''' 	Controversial issues surrounding this saint.

==微格式==
{{UF-hcard-person}}

<includeonly>{{sandbox other||
<!-- 本行下加入模板的分類，跨維基連結加入Wikidata（參見[[Wikipedia:Wikidata]]） -->
[[Category:人物信息框模板|宗教]]
}}</includeonly>