<noinclude>{{template doc page viewed directly}}</noinclude>
;Application
:To display IP addresses such that the full address cannot be captured by the crawler of a search engine. Between the first and second octet of the address, an one pixel wide non braking space is inserted.
;Usage
:<nowiki>{{</nowiki>IPnr
::| <1<SUP>st</SUP> octet (w/o dot)>
::| <2<SUP>nd</SUP> up to including 4<SUP>th</SUP> octet (with dots between the octets)>
::[| <range (w/o slash)>
::[| <link parm>
::[| <position parm>
::[| <2<SUP>nd</SUP> up to including 4<SUP>th</SUP> octet of upper range limit (special cases)>]]]]<nowiki>}}</nowiki>
:Note: New lines are only shown for readability

;Parameters
:'''<link parm>'''
:Determines what clickable links are displayed. The following values apply:
::1 - shows the IP as a clickable link to contributions of the IP;
::2 - shows link to user page of the IP;
::4 - shows link to talk page of the IP;
::8 - shows link to current block list, filtered for the IP(/range);
::16 - shows link to block log for the IP[/range];
::32 - shows link to page to block the IP[/range] for 1 hour (default). Only useful for special applications.
:The values may be bitwise OR'ed (similar to many program languages). In other words: may be added to get any combination of links.
:'''<position parm>'''
:If not empty or <>0: positions the strings with links below the IP, otherwise these are following the IP on the same line. Should be used within a block element, such as a table cell, as the links will center align.

:Parameters that are not used, may be left empty.

;Ranges
:There are two types of IP ranges
:* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing CIDR ranges], e.g. 123.123.123.0/24
:* Non-CIDR ranges
:The latter are frequently found in the allocation of IP-address ranges by for instance a provider to a customers or DHCP allocated addresses for certain purposes, as can be found by querying the WHOIS dataase of a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regional_Internet_Registry RIR].
:An example would be: 123.123.123.0 - 123.123.124.255. 
:Such a range cannot be written as a single CIDR range, but consists of two CIDR ranges, i.e. 123.123.123.0/24 and 123.123.124.0/24. <small>Please note that this is a very simple example, much more complicated cases do exist in reality).</small>

;Examples
:*<nowiki>{{IPnr|123|123.123.123}}</nowiki> gives {{IPnr|123|123.123.123}}
:*<nowiki>{{IPnr|123|123.123.0|24}}</nowiki> gives {{IPnr|123|123.123.0|24}}
:*<nowiki>{{IPnr|123|123.123.0||||123.124.255}}</nowiki> gives {{IPnr|123|123.123.0||||123.124.255}}
:*<nowiki>{{IPnr|123|123.123.123||7}}</nowiki> gives {{IPnr|123|123.123.123||7}}
:*<nowiki>{{IPnr|123|123.123.123||13}}</nowiki> gives {{IPnr|123|123.123.123||13}}
:*<nowiki>{{IPnr|123|123.123.0|24|24}}</nowiki> gives {{IPnr|123|123.123.0|24|24}}
:*<nowiki><table align=center><td>{{IPnr|123|123.123.0|24|32|1}}</td></table></nowiki> gives <table align=center><td>{{IPnr|123|123.123.0|24|32|1}}</td></table><noinclude>
[[Categorie:Sjablonen beheerpagina|IPnr/doc]]
</noinclude>