{{Documentation subpage}}
{{缺乏中文说明}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE -->

此模板会将页面标题显示为斜体。只应用于那些满足[[Wikipedia:命名常规|条目名称]]规则可以斜体命名的条目，中文条目名称通常不需要使用斜体显示。

通常此模板应放置在文章的顶部。

'''如果不能工作：''' ''Try putting the template after the infobox. If it still doesn't work, use [[WP:DISPLAYTITLE|DISPLAYTITLE]] instead of this template; again, this may need to go after the infobox.''

===用法===

Article titles cannot contain wiki-formatting, such as <nowiki>''</nowiki>, so cannot be made italic in the normal way. Instead, place this template in the article, normally at the very top. It will then have the following effect:
*Titles with no brackets <tt>()</tt> are fully italicised:
**{{Nowrap|<tt>Foo</tt>}} &rarr;  {{Nowrap|'''''Foo'''''}}
**{{Nowrap|<tt>Talk:Foo</tt>}} &rarr; {{Nowrap|'''Talk:''Foo'''''}}
*Titles which contain parentheses are italicised before the first opening parenthesis:
**{{Nowrap|<tt>Foo (bar)</tt>}} &rarr; {{Nowrap|'''''Foo'' (bar)'''}}
**{{Nowrap|<tt>Talk:Foo (bar)</tt>}} &rarr; {{Nowrap|'''Talk:''Foo'' (bar)'''}}

Some infoboxes automatically attempt to italicise the title of the article in which they are included. When this works correctly, this template is not needed. When it doesn't work correctly, try putting the <tt><nowiki>{{Italic title}}</nowiki></tt> ''after'' the infobox.

===参见===
*[[WP:ITALICTITLE]]
*{{Tlx|Italic title prefixed}}
{{WrongTitleExamples}}
Templates which use this template should display the following notice:
*{{Tl|Auto italic title}}

<includeonly>{{#ifeq:{{PAGENAME}}|Sidebar with collapsible lists|
<!-- 本行下加入模板的分類 -->
[[Category:條目信息與編輯模板|Italic title]]
<!-- 本行下加入模板的跨語言鏈接 -->
</includeonly>