{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE. -->
<!-- EDIT TEMPLATE DOCUMENTATION BELOW THIS LINE -->
{{Distinguish|Template:JCT}}
{{Lua|Module:Jct}}
<!--This is the basic syntax you need to get a junction listing for a highway article's exit list or interchange list, just place this in the appropriate place in the exit list table and fill in the variables. Note that this is a complete list of every variable that can be used with <nowiki>{{jct}}</nowiki> and that many are unnecessary in most cases. Variables that are empty can be omitted.-->

==使用方法==
<pre width="100%">
{{Jct|country=|state=
  |to1=|1|2|county1=|dab1=|dir1=|name1=
  |to2=|3|4|county2=|dab2=|dir2=|name2=
  |to3=|5|6|county3=|dab3=|dir3=|name3=
  |to4=|7|8|county4=|dab4=|dir4=|name4=
  ...
  |toroad=|road=
  |city1=|location1=
  |city2=|location2=
  |city3=|location3=
  |city4=|location4=
  ...
  |extra=
}}
</pre>
關於支援此模板的國家之[[ISO 3166-1]]編碼，詳見[[Template:Jct/doc/country]]。
<!--對於上述的參數，應該要填入什麼：
*'''國家（country）：''' the [[ISO 3166-1]] alpha-3 code of the country that the route is in. Use [[ISO 3166-1#Current codes|this list]] to find the correct code for the country. [[Template:Jct/doc/country|These countries]] have had the necessary subtemplates set up; see that page for instructions on how to set up new countries. If the route is located in the United States or Canada ''and'' the route is located within one state or province then it is possible to use '''state''' without setting the '''country'''. Accepted values for state are as follows:
**'''美國各州：''' the two-letter [[United States postal abbreviations|postal abbreviation]] of the state.
**'''加拿大省份：''' the two-letter [[Canadian subnational postal abbreviations|postal abbreviation]] of the province.
**'''Mexican state:''' the three-letter [[Administrative divisions of Mexico#ISO 3166 codes|postal abbreviation]] of the state. 
* '''州'''或'''省：''' two-to-three-letter abbreviation, state/province/territory (USA, MEX, CAN, & AUS only) that the article route is located in
* '''1, 3, 5, 7：''' the type of route, this parameter replaces the number, i.e. it should not be 1=I, just simply I
* '''2, 4, 6, 8:''' the route number for the preceding route type, this parameter replaces the number, i.e. it should not be 2=10, just simply 10
* '''dir1, dir2, dir3, dir4:''' road direction if the exit only leads to a particular direction rather than both, for example Interstate 10 east
* '''to1, to2, to3, to4:''' inputs a To before a route. '''toroad''' does the same for the road parameter
* '''name1, name2, name3, name4:''' road name if the highway has a common name as well as a route number
* '''road:''' adds road names, separate multiple roads by a forward slash(/).
* '''city1, city2, city3, city4:''' the cities listed on the exit's guide signs, i.e. control cities.  The template will automatically put the city in the following format: <nowiki>[[city1, state|city1]]</nowiki>.  In the event a destination city is located outside of the state the route is in, or if the city needs additional disambiguation by area or county, use the location parameter(s) instead of city parameter(s).
* '''location1, location2, location3, location4:''' other locations listed on the exit's guide signs, i.e. control cities. These parameters are mutually exclusive with their corresponding city# parameters. In other words, do not use ''city1'' and ''location1''; use ''city1'' and ''location2''. The template will display the input at the appropriate location in the list, using whatever formatting is used in the parameter.  This allows additional disambiguation, e.g. use <nowiki>"location2= [[Greenport, Suffolk County, New York|Greenport]]" rather than "city2=Greenport"</nowiki>.
*Other parameters include county1-4, for disambiguating county routes, noshield1-4, for not showing a shield, nolink1-4, for not linking to a minor route that will never have an article, and dab1-4, for disambiguating a route (like [[Minnesota State Highway 62 (east)]] or an Interstate business route; business routes that need separate banners on top are currently supported in all U.S. states where the banners are actually used in the field.
*There are also noshield and nolink params to hide all shields or all links.
*'''extra:''' currently supports adding a single ''MUTCD'' intermodal icon for an airport, bus terminal, car ferry, passenger rail or light rail station appear after any and all route markers but before the rest of the output using airport, bus, ferry, rail or light-rail respectively. For Australia, the local version of the airport and hospital icons are available. Graphics and types for additional countries can be added to {{tl|jct/extra}}.-->

===各國用法===
*美國公路用法請詳見[[Template:Jct/doc/type/USA|此頁]]。
*澳洲公路用法請詳見[[Template:Jct/doc/type/AUS|此頁]]。
*台灣公路用法請詳見[[Template:Jct/doc/type/TWN|此頁]]。

==範例==
*<code><nowiki>{{Jct|country=TWN|NH|1}}</nowiki></code>
:{{Jct|country=TWN|NH|1}}
*<code><nowiki>{{Jct|country=TWN|NH|1|NH|3}}</nowiki></code>
:{{Jct|country=TWN|NH|1|NH|3}}
*<code><nowiki>{{Jct|country=USA|I|22}}</nowiki></code>
:{{Jct|country=USA|I|22}}
*<code><nowiki>{{Jct|country=USA|I|22|US|78}}</nowiki></code>
:{{Jct|country=USA|I|22|US|78}}
*<code><nowiki>{{Jct|state=KS|K|22}}</nowiki></code>
:{{Jct|state=KS|K|22}}

==相關連結==
*{{tl|Roadlink}}, a similar template that produces road links without route marker images
*{{tl|Jctname}}, a similar template that transposes the road name and route number

<includeonly><!--
++++ PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS BELOW THIS LINE, INSIDE INCLUDEONLY TAGS, THANK YOU. -->
[[Category:道路標誌模板]]
</includeonly>