{{NoteTA|G1=MediaWiki}}
{{Documentation subpage}}
{{template shortcuts|Nsl}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE -->

This template normally creates a link to a page, but omits the link brackets if it is the page itself. Such a [[Help:Self link|self link]] would otherwise cause '''bold text'''.

This template can be used in another template which links to a page where it is transcluded. This template is not recommended in [[Wikipedia:Categories, lists, and navigation templates#Navigation templates|navigation templates]] where many readers will expect to see the bold text caused by self links.

=== 使用方法 ===

* First parameter is the page name.
* Second parameter is optional to specify different link text.

=== 示例 ===

*<code><nowiki>{{No selflink|Wikipedia:Five pillars}}</nowiki></code> will produce [[Wikipedia:Five pillars]] on any page except on [[Wikipedia:Five pillars]] itself where it would produce the unlinked and unbolded text "Wikipedia:Five pillars". (The code <code><nowiki>[[Wikipedia:Five pillars]]</nowiki></code> would have produced the bold '''Wikipedia:Five pillars''' on that page).
*<code><nowiki>{{No selflink|Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars}}</nowiki></code> will produce a [[Wikipedia:Piped link|piped link]] displaying [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars]] on any page except on [[Wikipedia:Five pillars]] itself where it would produce the unlinked and unbolded text "The five pillars". (The code <code><nowiki>[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars]]</nowiki></code> would have produced the bold '''The five pillars''' on that page).

=== 另见 ===
* {{tl|Link if not current}} – produces a list item or nothing
* [[Help:Self link]]

<includeonly>{{Sandbox other||
<!-- CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS HERE, THANKS -->

[[Category:条件链接模板]]

}}</includeonly>