{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- 在本行下編輯模板說明 -->
This template is to help users write fair use rationales for non-free album covers and other music cover art as required by [[Wikipedia:Non-free content|WP:NFC]] and [[Wikipedia:Non-free use rationale guideline|WP:FURG]]. Include this in the [[Help:File page|File page]] before the {{tl|Non-free album cover}} template, once for each time you insert the album cover art image into an article.

----

Please use copyrighted content responsibly and in accordance with Wikipedia policy. A template alone does not make cover art fair to use. It merely helps you state why you think it is appropriate.  

This template is optimized for album cover art used in the article about the album. Other contexts may work, but it may not. Before saving, try the "preview" feature to review the text produced by this template. Be sure the language is true and complete. If not consider using the override fields or a hand-written justification.

== 使用方法 ==
你必須複製這段參數到你的檔案頁面。
<pre>
{{Non-free use rationale album cover
| Article           = 
| Use               = <!--可選擇：Infobox / Header / Section / other -->
| Purpose           = <!--如果你的 Use 參數設定為 other，必填，否則不予理會 -->
<!-- 額外資訊 -->
| Name              = 
| Artist            = 
| Label             = 
| Graphic Artist    = 
| Item              = 
| Type              = 
| Website           = 
| Owner             = 
| Commentary        = 
<!--覆蓋資訊 -->
| Description       = 
| Source            = 
| Portion           = 
| Low resolution    = 
| Replaceability    = 
| Other information = 
}}
</pre>

=== 必寫欄目 ===
*''Article'' - 條目名稱，不加「[[ ]]」。
*''Use'' - How is the image used in the article?  Choose one
::''Infobox'' - in the infobox for the article about the album / work
::''Header'' - top of article about the album / work
::''Other'' - some other use. Describe in "Purpose"
*''Purpose'' = 如果不是上述這些條件，請解釋如何使用及原因。
=== 選填欄目 ===
*''Name'' - 唱片名稱（如與條目名稱不同）
*''Artist'' - 歌手／演唱者
*''Label'' - 唱片公司
*''Graphic Artist'' - 唱片封面設計者
*''Item'' - 唱片圖像類型（封面／封底）
*''Type'' - 專輯類型（可參考[[:Template:Infobox_Album#專輯類型（Type欄）填寫說明]]）
*''Website'' - If taken from the web, where?
*''Owner'' - 版權持有者
*''Commentary'' - Discuss any commentary in the article about the cover art itself.
=== 覆蓋欄目 ===
*''Description'' = Additional information about album or artwork
*''Source'' = If not from the website, specifically where and how did you get the image?
*''Portion'' = If you did not use the whole cover, what part did you use and why?
*''Low resolution'' = If the image is unusually large or small, why?
*''Replaceability'' = Explain why the image can't be replaced with free use, if boilerplate explanations aren't accurate
*''Other information'' = Any other information you think helps the image's fair use case
----
Usage Notes:
*Do not use both ''Website'' and ''Source'', or the website's link will be corrupted.

<includeonly>
<!-- 本行下加入模板的分類 -->
[[Category:非自由檔案文件依據模板|Album Cover]]
</includeonly>