{{Documentation subpage}}
{{Template shortcut|pb|parabr|paragraph}}

== Usage ==
This template produces a "visual paragraph break" using an empty <code>&lt;div&gt;&lt;/div&gt;</code> tag pair.

Example:

:{{xt|Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.<nowiki>{{paragraph break}}</nowiki>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.}}

produces:

:Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.{{paragraph break}}Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.

== Purpose ==
In some instances, it is not possible to introduce paragraph breaks using newlines alone.  For example, within a list item and within references.  However, using &lt;p&gt; tags can cause problems for navigation with screen readers, which expect these tags to delimit paragraphs of prose. This template is used mostly in footnotes, where a visual break is desired, without adding an additional paragraph navigation point.

== Example 1 ==
The following reference uses line breaks for multiple lines.<ref>
Paragraph 1a

Paragraph 1b
</ref>
The following reference uses the paragraph break template for paragraph breaks.<ref>Paragraph 2a{{paragraph break}}Paragraph 2b</ref>
The following reference uses &lt;br&gt; tags for paragraph breaks.<ref>Line 3a<br />Line 3b</ref>

'''Notes'''
{{reflist}}

== Example 2 ==
Consider the following list
# Paragraph 1a {{paragraph break}} Paragraph 1b
# Paragraph 2

which was generated using
<pre>
# Paragraph 1a {{paragraph break}} Paragraph 1b
# Paragraph 2
</pre>

<includeonly>
<!-- Categories go here: -->
[[Category:輸入支援模板]]
</includeonly>