{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- Please place categories where indicated at the bottom of this page and interwikis at Wikidata (see [[Wikipedia:Wikidata]]) -->
== 使用方法 ==

This template required the first unnamed parameter, that is:

:<pre>{{PH census|yyyy}}</pre> where ''yyyy'' is the required year (any <span style="text-decoration: underline;">census</span> year, 1903–2015)

:or

:<pre>{{PH census|current}}</pre> which returns the reference for the latest census data.  Thus new census data does not need changing in pages, for instance when new census (2015) changed from (2010).

:'''NB''' '''<code>current</code>''' can be used only on a page whose wikidata entry includes a population statement, complete with qualifier P585 (point-in-time). The template returns the wikidata information for the supplied year.

:Examples:
:* <code><nowiki>{{PH census|2010}}</nowiki></code> produces {{PH census|2010}}
:* <code><nowiki>{{PH census|current}}</nowiki></code> produces {{PH census|current}} 

An optional named parameter can be used to specify the region instead of default, for instance when the generic reference is needed instead of the region specific.
:For all Philippine places, the PSGC is included in wikidata.  Therefore the correct Region section is the first two digits of the PSGC code.
:PSGC = '''<code>rrppmmbbb</code>''', e.g. 072228003 –
::'''<code>rr</code>''' region = 07 (Central Visayas),
::'''<code>pp</code>''' province = 22 (Cebu),
::'''<code>mm</code>''' municipality / city = 28 (Madridejos),
::'''<code>bbb</code>''' barangay = 003 (Kaongkod). 
{{columns-list|colwidth=24em|
:* '''01''' for Region I: Ilocos
:* '''02''' for Region II: Cagayan Valley
:* '''03''' for Region III: Central Luzon
:* '''04''' for Region IV: Calabarzon
:* '''05''' for Region V: Bicol Region
:* '''06''' for Region VI: Western Visayas
:* '''07''' for Region VII: Central Visayas
:* '''08''' for Region VIII: Eastern Visayas
:* '''09''' for Region IX: Zamboanga Peninsula
:* '''10''' for Region X: Northern Mindanao
:* '''11''' for Region XI: Davao Region
:* '''12''' for Region XII: Soccsksargen
:* '''13''' for National Capital Region
:* '''14''' for Cordillera Administrative Region
:* '''15''' for Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao
:* '''16''' for Caraga
:* '''17''' for Mimaropa
<!--:* '''18''' for Negros Island Region
 -->}}

Example:
* <code><nowiki>{{PH census|current|17}}</nowiki></code> produces {{PH census|current|17}}
* <code><nowiki>{{PH census|2015|*}}</nowiki></code> produces {{PH census|2015|*}}
<hr />
* Regions first came to existence on {{date|24 sep 1972}}, when the provinces of the Philippines were organized into eleven regions.  Earlier dates are extrapolated.
* '''Negros Island Region''', also abbreviated and officially designated as NIR (unofficially Region XVIII), was an administrative region in the Philippines which comprised the provinces of Negros Occidental and Negros Oriental both of which are part of the island of Negros. It existed only from {{date|29 may 2015}} to {{date| 9 aug 2017}}.
<hr />
{{reflist}}
<includeonly>{{basepage subpage|
[[Category:菲律賓模板]]
}}</includeonly>