{{noteTA
|G1=IT
|1=zh-hans:缓存; zh-hant:快取;
}}
<noinclude>{{template doc page viewed directly}}</noinclude>{{high-use|18504}}
{{tl|purge}}生成一个链接，点击该链接会清除缓存并从维基文本重建页面。
<!-- 
{{tl|{{BASEPAGENAME}}}} produces a link that will clear the cache and rebuild page from the wikitext.
-->
== 目的 ==
为了提高服务的效率，[[MediaWiki]][[cache|缓存]]了页面。依赖于编辑者们接连操作的确切的顺序，读者查看一个给定页面时可能看到的是它的一个过期版本。此现象最常发生在那些被大量编辑的页面上，以及那些含有一个[[Wikipedia:嵌入包含|嵌入包含]]实例的页面上。

{{tl|purge}}可用在任何页面上来生成一个链接，点击该链接时，不但会重载该页面，而且会清除服务器缓存，强迫该页面被完全地“从零开始”呈现。这不是一个一次性的解决方案，编辑一个页面这种操作本身也足以清除缓存。在一定程度上，它是预计到经常性地需要清除缓存时可采用的一个方法。

<!-- 
For efficiency in service, [[MediaWiki]] [[cache]]s pages. Depending on the exact sequence of actions editors follow, one may view an out-of-date version of a given page. This happens most often on heavily-edited pages and on pages which contain an instance of [[Wikipedia:嵌入包含|嵌入包含]]. 

{{tl|purge}} adds to any page a link that, when clicked, not only reloads the page, but clears the server cache, forcing the page to be completely rendered "from scratch". This is not a one-time solution; generally, editing a page is itself sufficient to purge cache. Rather, it is a measure taken in anticipation of the frequent need to purge. 
-->
== 範例 ==
'''代码'''：
* <code><nowiki>{{purge}}</nowiki></code>
* <code><nowiki>{{purge|清除本页面的服务器缓存。}}</nowiki></code>

'''生成'''：
* {{purge}}
* {{purge|清除本页面的服务器缓存。}}
<!-- 
'''Code''':
* <tt><nowiki>{{purge}}</nowiki></tt>
* <tt><nowiki>{{purge|Purge this page's server cache.}}</nowiki></tt>

'''Yields''':
* {{purge}}
* {{purge|Purge this page's server cache.}}
-->
== 參見 ==
<!-- {{lt|actions}} -->
* [[Wikipedia:更新服务器缓存]]

<includeonly>
[[Category:維基百科維護模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]
[[Category:鏈接模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]

[[ar:قالب:إفراغ الكاش]]
[[arc:ܩܠܒܐ:ܡܣܦܩ ܩܐܫ]]
[[arz:قالب:تفضية الكاش]]
[[az:Şablon:Purge]]
[[be-x-old:Шаблён:Ачысьціць кэш]]
[[bi:Template:Purge]]
[[ca:Plantilla:Purge]]
[[ce:Куцкеп:Purge]]
[[ceb:Plantilya:Purge]]
[[csb:Szablóna:Purge]]
[[cy:Nodyn:Puro]]
[[diq:Şablon:Purge]]
[[en:Template:Purge]]
[[es:Plantilla:Purgar]]
[[et:Mall:Puhastama]]
[[eu:Txantiloi:Birkargatu]]
[[fa:الگو:پاکسازی]]
[[fr:Modèle:Purger le cache]]
[[gu:ઢાંચો:Purge]]
[[hu:Sablon:Purge]]
[[ia:Patrono:Purge]]
[[id:Templat:Purge]]
[[is:Snið:Purge]]
[[it:Template:Purga]]
[[ja:Template:Purge]]
[[ka:თარგი:Purge]]
[[km:ទំព័រគំរូ:Purge]]
[[kn:ಟೆಂಪ್ಲೇಟು:ಶುದ್ಧಿಗೊಳಿಸು]]
[[lv:Veidne:Purge]]
[[map-bms:Cithakan:Purge]]
[[mk:Шаблон:Исчисти]]
[[mwl:Modelo:Purgar]]
[[nah:Nemachiyōtīlli:Tlachipàwalö]]
[[nl:Sjabloon:Purge]]
[[no:Mal:Oppdater]]
[[pl:Szablon:Odśwież]]
[[pt:Predefinição:Purgar]]
[[qu:Plantilla:Llump'aychay]]
[[ro:Format:Purge]]
[[ru:Шаблон:Очистить кэш]]
[[sco:Template:Purge]]
[[simple:Template:Purge]]
[[sl:Predloga:Osveži]]
[[sr:Шаблон:Освежи]]
[[sv:Mall:Rensa]]
[[sw:Kigezo:Purge]]
[[te:మూస:విసర్జన]]
[[tg:Шаблон:Поксозӣ]]
[[tl:Suleras:Purge]]
[[tn:Template:Purge]]
[[tr:Şablon:Boşalt]]
[[uk:Шаблон:Purge]]
[[ur:سانچہ:تطہیر]]
[[vep:Šablon:Purge]]
[[vi:Bản mẫu:Làm sạch]]
[[zh-yue:Template:Purge]]
</includeonly><includeonly><templatedata>
{
	"params": {
		"1": {
			"description": "链接说明文字",
			"type": "string"
		},
		"2": {
			"description": "鼠标悬停时的提示",
			"type": "string"
		},
		"jumpto": {
			"description": "跳转页面的锚点",
			"type": "string"
		},
		"page": {
			"description": "要跳转刷新的页面，默认为模板所调用的页面"
		}
	},
	"format": "inline"
}
</templatedata>
</includeonly>