<!--- ---- Usage Page generated from: Template doc page pattern ----- ----->
{{documentation subpage}}

The {{tl|SharedIP}} template is an IP user talk page template that shows helpful information to IP users and those wishing to warn or ban them.  It takes two arguments, one required and one optional: the name of the organization to which the IP address is registered (preferably wikilinked or at least hyperlinked) (required); and the hostname (optional).  It adds pages to [[:Category:共用IP地址]].  It should '''''not''''' be substituted, but transcluded.

== Usage ==
<pre>
{{SharedIP|organization}}
{{SharedIP|organization|host=hostname}}
</pre>

== Example ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Code
! Result
|-
| <code><nowiki>{{SharedIP|[[Internet Assigned Numbers Authority|IANA]]}}</nowiki></code>
| {{SharedIP|[[Internet Assigned Numbers Authority|IANA]]}}
|-
| <code><nowiki>{{SharedIP|[[Internet Assigned Numbers Authority|IANA]]|host=proxy.example.com}}</nowiki></code>
| {{SharedIP|[[Internet Assigned Numbers Authority|IANA]]|host=proxy.example.com}}
|}

== See also ==
*[[Template talk:SharedIP]] - Previous documentation.
*[[Template:ISP]] - A modified version specifically for use with [[ISP]] organizations.
*[[Template:Sample]] - How the documentation was created.
*[[Template:SharedIPEDU]] - A modified version specifically for use with educational institutions.
*[[Template:SharedIPPublic]] - A modified version specifically for use with public terminals such as in libraries, etc.
*[[Template:MobileIP]] - A modified version specifically for use with a mobile device's IP
*[[Wikipedia:Blocking IP addresses]] - How to determine if an IP address is shared and by whom.
<includeonly>
<!-- ADD CATEGORIES BELOW THIS LINE -->
[[Category:用戶對話頁模板]]

<!-- ADD INTERWIKIS BELOW THIS LINE -->
[[bg:Шаблон:СподеленоIP]]
[[es:Plantilla:IPCompartida]]
[[fa:الگو:آی‌پی مشترک]]
[[fr:Modèle:IP partagée]]
[[hi:साँचा:Shared IP]]
[[hi:साँचा:Shared IP gov]]
[[hi:साँचा:SharedIPCORP]]
[[it:Template:IPcondiviso]]
[[ga:Teimpléad:Comhsheoladh-IP]]
[[he:תבנית:כתובת IP משותפת]]
[[ja:Template:SharedIP]]
[[nl:Sjabloon:Ws-organisatie]]
[[pt:Predefinição:IP partilhado]]
[[en:Template:Shared IP]]
</includeonly>

{{DEFAULTSORT:{{BASEPAGENAME}}}}