{{Documentation subpage}}
{{缺乏中文说明}}
{{High-use|42550}}
<!-- Categories and interwikis go at the bottom of this page. -->

This is a meta-template used for creating interwiki links to other [[WP:sister projects|sister projects]] of Wikipedia. Note that links to other ''language'' Wikipedias should ''not'' use links in this form, instead use [[WP:Wikidata|Wikidata]] to add them to the sidebar.

This is a companion template to {{tl|sister project}} to be used where a floating side box causes layout problems on short articles.

== Usage ==

This template should normally be placed at the top of the ''External links'' section at the end of an article, if the article has a section for [[WP:EL|external links]].  If no such section exists, then please place it at the top of the last section in <nowiki>the article</nowiki>.
On [[WP:DAB|disambiguation pages]], this template should be listed above other text, but below any cleanup templates, images, infoboxes or navboxes.<!-- Per WP:ACCESS, cleanup templates, images, infoboxes, and navboxes are always<nowiki> first</nowiki>. -->

*'''{{para|project}}''' The sister project to link to. Used to select the displayed logo and the text.
*'''{{para|links}}''' A single interwiki link to the article at the sister project. Displays with text such as "Media related to <code><nowiki>{{{links}}}</nowiki></code> at Wikimedia Commons"
*'''{{para|list}}''' Alternatively, a list of multiple links to articles at sister projects. Displays with text such as "Related media at Wikimedia Commons: <code><nowiki>{{{list}}}</nowiki></code>"

'''Example:'''
<pre>
{{sister-inline
|project=commons
|links=[[commons:Dog|Dogs]]
}}
</pre>
{{sister-inline
|project=commons
|links=[[commons:Dog|Dogs]]
}}

Adding <code>|short=yes</code> will omit the following explanatory text; this can be useful for adding short links to [[WP:NAVBOX|navigational boxes]], for instance.  This permits the link's text to differ from the link's address in namespace.

'''Example:'''
<pre>
{{sister-inline
|project=v
|links=[[v:Category:Wikiversity quizzes placed on Wikipedia|Quizzes on Wikipedia articles can be found at Wikiversity]]
|short=yes
}}
</pre>

{{sister-inline
|project=v
|links=[[v:Category:Wikiversity quizzes placed on Wikipedia|Quizzes on Wikipedia articles can be found at Wikiversity]]
|short=yes
}}

== TemplateData ==
{{TemplateDataHeader}}
<templatedata>
{
	"description": "This is a meta-template used for creating interwiki links to other sister projects of Wikipedia. Note that links to other ''language'' Wikipedias should ''not'' use links in this form, instead use Wikidata to add them to the sidebar.\n\nThis is a companion template to {{tl|sister project}} to be used where a floating side box causes layout problems on short articles.",
	"paramOrder": [
		"project",
		"list",
		"links",
		"short",
		"extratext"
	],
	"params": {
		"links": {
			"label": "Link(s)",
			"description": "Code that renders one or more sister project link. You need command of Wikimarkup. Multiple links can be separated with comma plus space. This parameter is ignored if \"List of links\" parameter is included.",
			"type": "unbalanced-wikitext"
		},
		"list": {
			"label": "List of links",
			"description": "Code that renders a list of links. You need command of Wikimarkup. Overrides \"Link(s)\" parameter.",
			"type": "unbalanced-wikitext"
		},
		"project": {
			"label": "Project name",
			"description": "The sister project to link to. This parameter is used to customize text and logo and has otherwise no other impact. Acceptable values are: commons, commonscat, meta, (metawiki, m), wikibooks, (wbk, wb, b), wikidata, (data), cookbook, wikiquote, (quote, wqt, q), wikipedia, (wp, w), wikisource, (wikisource2, source, source2, ws, ws2, s, s2), wiktionary, (wkt, wdy, d), wikinews, (news, wnw, n), wikispecies, (species), wikiversity, (wvy, v), wikivoyage, (voyage, voy), mediawiki, (mw), outreachwiki, (outreach), incubator",
			"type": "string"
		},
		"short": {
			"label": "Short?",
			"description": "Setting this parameter to \"yes\" omits rendering text labels and causes the content of \"List of links\" parameter to be inserted.",
			"type": "boolean",
			"autovalue": "yes",
			"suggested": true
		},
		"extratext": {
			"label": "Extra text",
			"description": "Trailing text appended to the end of everything rendered.",
			"type": "string"
		}
	}
}
</templatedata>

== See also ==
{{tl|sister project}}

<includeonly>{{#ifeq:{{SUBPAGENAME}}|sandbox||
<!-- Categories and interwikis go here: -->

[[Category:姊妹計劃鏈接模板| ]]
[[Category:不顯示於列印版面的模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]
}}</includeonly>