{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- 在本行下編輯模板說明 -->

This is the {{tl|talk other}} meta-template.

This template helps other templates detect if they are on a talk page or some "other" type of page.

=== 用法 ===

這模板包含兩個參數，像這樣：

<pre>{{talk other |討論頁產生文字|其他頁產生文字}}</pre>

如果把這模板放在討論頁上，模板返回：

:{{talk other | demospace=talk |討論頁產生文字|其他頁產生文字}}

如果把這模板放在其他頁面上，模板返回：

:{{talk other |討論頁產生文字|其他頁產生文字}}

A typical usage case could be to make it so that a template only adds a category when on talk pages. Thus not adding other pages that just show the template. Like this:

<pre>
{{talk other | [[Category:Some talk page category]] }}
</pre>

Or to warn that a template should not be used on other pages:

<pre>
{{talk other | | This template should only be used on talk pages. }}
</pre>

Note that in the first case above the "other" parameter was not used, and in the second example the "talk" parameter was left empty.

=== Demospace ===

為進行測試和示範，這模板有一個參數名為'''demospace'''。

* 如果值為'''talk'''，則返回討論頁產生文字。
* 如果值為'''other'''或其他值，則返回其他頁產生文字。
* 如果參數為空或未被定義，頁面決定結果。

像這樣：

<pre>
{{talk other 
|討論頁產生文字
|其他頁產生文字
|demospace = talk
}}
</pre>

無論在什麼頁面都會返回：

:{{talk other 
|討論頁產生文字
|其他頁產生文字
|demospace = talk
}}

You can make it so your template also understands the '''demospace''' parameter. That means you can demonstrate the different appearances of your template in the documentation for your template. Then do like this:

<pre>
{{talk other 
| Talk pages text 
| Other pages text 
| demospace = {{{demospace|}}}
}}
</pre>

=== Technical details ===

This template detects all types of talk pages as type '''talk'''. That is, "Talk:", "User talk:", "File talk:" and so on are all of type '''talk'''.

This template works like {{tl|main talk other}}, for more examples and technical details see full documentation there. 

=== 參見 ===

{{namespace detect see also}}

<includeonly>{{sandbox other||
[[Category:命名空間操作模板]]
[[Category:討論頁模板]]
}}</includeonly>