{{Don't edit this line {{{machine code|}}}|{{{1}}}
|parent=Nepetoideae
|rank=tribus
|link=罗勒族
|scientific_name=Ocimeae
|refs=
*Dumort. 1829. ''Anal. Fam. Pl.'' 22. 
*Paton, A.J., Springate, D., Suddee, S., Otieno, D., Grayer, R.J., Harley, R.M., Willis, F., Simmonds, M.S.J., Powell, M.P. & Savolainen, V. (2004) Phylogeny and evolution of basils and allies (Ocimeae, Labiatae) based on three plastid DNA regions, ''Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution'', '''31'''(1): 277–299. {{doi|10.1016/j.ympev.2003.08.002}}.
*Suddee, S., Paton, A.J., & Parnell, J.A.N. (2004) A Taxonomic Revision of Tribe Ocimeae Dumort. (Lamiaceae) in Continental South East Asia I. Introduction, Hyptidinae & Hanceolinae, Kew Bulletin 59(3) 337-378.
*S. Suddee, S., Paton, A.J. & Parnell, J.A.N. (2004) A Taxonomic Revision of Tribe Ocimeae Dumort. (Lamiaceae) in Continental South East Asia II. Plectranthinae, Kew Bulletin 59(3): 379-414.
*Suddee, S., Paton, A.J., & Parnell, J.A.N. (2005) A Taxonomic Revision of tribe Ocimeae Dumort. (Lamiaceae) in continental South East Asia. III. Ociminae. Kew Bulletin 60(1): 3-75.
*Harley, R.M & Pastore, J.F.B. (2012) A generic revision and new combinations in the Hyptidinae (Lamiaceae), based on molecular and morphological evidence, Phytotaxa 58: 1–55. Abstract on line[http://www.mapress.com/phytotaxa/content/2012/f/p00058p055f.pdf].
*USDA, ARS, National Genetic Resources Program. Germplasm Resources Information Network - (GRIN) [Online Database]. [http://www.ars-grin.gov/cgi-bin/npgs/html/family.pl?2100]
}}