{{缺乏中文说明}}
{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE -->

This is the '''{{tlc|tlc}}''' template.

This page also provides the full documentation for the templates '''{{tlx|tld}}''' and '''{{tlx|tlf}}''', which work almost exactly identically.

== Purpose and naming ==

When a template name with braces is to be shown in documentation, the braces have to be escaped in some way so it doesn't become an actual call to the template. Instead of using <code>&lt;nowiki&gt;&lt;/nowiki&gt;</code> tags you can write it more simply and concisely by using the {{tlc|tlc}}, {{tlc|tld}}, or {{tlc|tlf}} templates.

These templates work similarly to {{tlc|tl}} and {{tlc|tlx}}, but don't make the template name into a link. When writing documentation you might want to avoid a lot of unnecessary links, since they can decrease readability. So on the first occurrence of a template name use {{tlx|tl}} or {{tlx|tlx}}, and then use {{tlc|tlc}}, {{tlc|tld}} or {{tlc|tlf}} thereafter.
 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Template
! style="width:15em;"|[[Wikt:mnemonic|Mnemonic]]
! Format differentiation
|-
| {{tlc|tlc}}
| '''T'''emplate '''l'''ink '''c'''ode
| Uses the <code><nowiki><code>...</code></nowiki></code> tags meant for showing programming code.
|-
| {{tlc|tld}}
| '''T'''emplate '''l'''ink '''d'''ialup-host
| Uses the <code><nowiki><tt>...</tt></nowiki></code> tags sometimes used for showing programming code. Essentially the non-linking equivalent of {{tlx|tlx}}.
|-
| {{tlc|tlf}}
| '''T'''emplate '''l'''ink '''f'''ormat-normal
| Uses proportional-spaced font as is normal for regular text rather than a monospace font as typically used with programming code. Essentially the non-linking equivalent of {{tlx|tlp}}.
|}

The three names were based on {{tlx|tl}} '''t'''emplate '''l'''ink', despite the fact that, unlike the actual {{tlc|tl}} template, these three don't include an actual link. The mnemonics for {{tlc|tld}} and {{tlc|tlf}} were invented after the fact, since the template creator used the single letters still available rather than the preferred {{tlc|tlt}} (using <nowiki><tt></nowiki>) and {{tlc|tln}} (using "normal", non-coded text style) monikers.

===Basic operation===

Here is how these templates look. Code is to the left; actual rendering to the right:

:{{tlc|tlc|name|parameters}} = {{tlc|name|parameters}}
:{{tlc|tld|name|parameters}} = {{tld|name|parameters}}
:{{tlc|tlf|name|parameters}} = {{tlf|name|parameters}}

===Use with editprotected templates===

Most Wikipedia users and even editors will have little or no need for use (or knowledge) of these templates. You will find them of more use if you are a writer or documenter of templates. However, editors may be pointed here when attempting to deal with edit requests on pages which have been [[Wikipedia:Protection policy|protected]] in some way.

Pages which have been protected can't be edited by every user, but would-be editors can request specific changes on the corresponding [[WP:Talk page|Discussion page]]. An editor requesting a change to a semi-protected page, for example, would add the {{tl|editsemiprotected}} template, followed by their request, to the Talk page. The {{tlc|editsemiprotected}} template expands to a texty notice which includes the instruction, "Replace the {{tlc|editsemiprotected}} template with {{tlc|tlf|editsemiprotected}} when the request has been accepted or rejected." An empowered editor acting on the request would then change the template per this instruction.

The desired effect is to replace the {{tlc|editsemiprotected}} template (with its big, eye-catching box of information) by the ''name'' of the template, merely showing that the template had been there, and acted upon. The use of the {{tlc|tlf}} template means that the template should appear in a normal, proportional font-face, as in "{{tlf|editsemiprotected}}".

==Documentation==

===Functional details===

* This template takes another ''template-name'' and some associated [[Help:Pipe trick|pipe-tricked]] [[m:Parameter#Parameters|(numbered) parameters]] (or 'pass parameters'), and displays them as an 'example demonstration' of how the ''template-name'' template could be coded, literally. Its primary use is in instruction and documentation.
*Specifics here??? <!-- Coding details, other parameters (SUBST?), other notes? Cf. [[Template:Tlx]] -->
*Features of {{tlc|tlc}}, {{tlc|tld}} and {{tlc|tlf}}:
** They show a template name and up to eight parameters.
** They also show empty parameters. (See examples below.)
** They prevent [[line wrap]]s in their output.

===Usage===

{{tlc|Tlc|Template|first_parameter|second|third|fourth|...|eighth}} → {{Tlc|Template|first_parameter|second|third|fourth|fifth|sixth|seventh|eighth}}

{{tlc|Tld|Template|first_parameter|second|third|fourth|...|eighth}} → {{Tld|Template|first_parameter|second|third|fourth|fifth|sixth|seventh|eighth}}

{{tlc|Tlf|Template|first_parameter|second|third|fourth|...|eighth}} → {{Tlf|Template|first_parameter|second|third|fourth|fifth|sixth|seventh|eighth}}

=== Examples ===

Note: Wikitables make the <code>&lt;code&gt;&lt;/code&gt;</code> tags transparent, unfortunately, so the "<code>code colouring</code>" is missing in these examples. 

<table class="wikitable">
<tr><th>Code<th>Result<th>Comment
<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc}} <td>{{tlc}} <td>Shows its own syntax.
<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc|name}} <td>{{tlc|name}} <td>
<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc|name|one}} <td>{{tlc|name|one}} <td>
<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc|name|one|two}} <td>{{tlc|name|one|two}} <td>
<tr><td><code><nowiki>{{tlc|name|a|b|c|d|e|f|g|h|i|j}}</nowiki></code> <td>{{tlc|name|a|b|c|d|e|f|g|h|i}} <td>Shows up to eight parameters. The rest are dropped.
<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc|name|||three|four}} <td>{{tlc|name|||three|four}} <td>Also shows empty parameters.
<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc|name|||three||}} <td>{{tlc|name|||three||}} <td>Even shows empty parameters that come in the end.

<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc|name|one{{=}}a|two{{=}}b}} <td>{{tlc|name|one=a|two=b}} <td>The use of equal signs is a problem, but there is a fix; see next row.
<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc|name|one{{=}}a|two{{((}}{{=}}{{))}}b}} <td>{{tlc|name|one{{=}}a|two{{=}}b}} <td>Use <code><nowiki>{{=}}</nowiki></code> in place of an equal sign, so that it gets rendered properly.

<tr><td>{{tlc|tlc|name|{{tlf|IPA|/tʃ/}}|two}} <td>{{tlc|tlc|name|{{IPA|/tʃ/}}|two}} <td>Nested template calls also cause problems ...
<tr><td><code><nowiki>{{tlc|name|{{tlf|IPA|/tʃ/}}|two}}</nowiki></code> <td>{{tlc|tlc|name|{{tlf|IPA|/tʃ/}}|two}} <td>... but there are ways to get around this issue, also.
<tr><td><code><nowiki>{{tlc|name|{{((}}IPA{{!}}/tʃ/{{))}}|two}}</nowiki></code> <td>{{tlc|tlc|name|{{tlf|IPA|/tʃ/}}|two}} <td>... another way to do the same thing, using <code><nowiki>{{((}}</nowiki></code>, <code><nowiki>{{!}}</nowiki></code> and <code><nowiki>{{))}}</nowiki></code> to insert literal <code><nowiki>{{</nowiki></code>, <code><nowiki>|</nowiki></code> and <code><nowiki>}}</nowiki></code>, respectively.
</table>

An alternative to using constructs such as <code><nowiki>{{=}}</nowiki></code> and <code><nowiki>{{tlf|...}}</nowiki></code> to prevent characters from getting interpreted syntactically is to use <code><nowiki><code>&lt;nowiki>...&lt;/nowiki></code></nowiki></code>, which will prevent '''all''' characters from being interpreted.  For example, in place of
 <code><nowiki>{{tlc|name|one{{=}}{{tlf|IPA|/tʃ/}}|two}}</nowiki></code>
you can use
 <code><nowiki><code>&lt;nowiki>{{name|one={{IPA|/tʃ/}}|two}}&lt;/nowiki></code></nowiki></code>
Both render as
 <code><nowiki>{{name|one={{IPA|/tʃ/}}|two}}</nowiki></code>

If a vertical display with parameters on their own lines is desired, this can also be laid out manually in this manner, or more rapidly done with <code><nowiki><pre>...</pre></nowiki></code>.

Here are the codes to emulate {{tlc|tlf}}, {{tlc|tld}} and {{tlc|tlc}} using <code>&lt;nowiki&gt;</code>:

{|
! Using templates: !! Using <code>&lt;nowiki&gt;</code>: !! Rendered result: 
|-
|style="padding-right: 50px;"| <code><nowiki>{{tlf|name|one{{=}}a|two{{=}}b}}</nowiki></code>
|style="padding-right: 50px;"| <code><nowiki>&lt;nowiki&gt;{{name|one=a|two=b}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;</nowiki></code>
|<nowiki>{{name|one=a|two=b}}</nowiki>
|-
|style="padding-right: 50px;"| <code><nowiki>{{tld|name|one{{=}}a|two{{=}}b}}</nowiki></code>
|style="padding-right: 50px;"| <code><nowiki>&lt;tt&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{name|one=a|two=b}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/tt&gt;</nowiki></code>
|<tt><nowiki>{{name|one=a|two=b}}</nowiki></tt>
|-
|style="padding-right: 50px;"| <code><nowiki>{{tlc|name|one{{=}}a|two{{=}}b}}</nowiki></code>
|style="padding-right: 50px;"| <code><nowiki>&lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{name|one=a|two=b}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt;</nowiki></code>
|<code><nowiki>{{name|one=a|two=b}}</nowiki></code>
|}

=== See also ===
{{Tl-nav}}


<includeonly>
<!-- 本行下加入模板的分類 -->
[[Category:輸入支援模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]
[[Category:内部链接模板|{{PAGENAME}}]]

<!-- 本行下加入模板的跨語言鏈接 -->
[[fa:الگو:الگوک]]
[[cy:Nodyn:Tlc]]
[[es:Plantilla:Tlc]]
[[fr:Modèle:Tlc]]
[[gl:Modelo:Tlc]]
[[ja:Template:Tlc]]
[[no:mal:Tlc]]
[[simple:Template:Tlc]]
[[uk:Шаблон:Tlc]]
[[ur:سانچہ:Tlc]]
</includeonly>