{{Navbox
| name = US16thAmendment
| title = [[美利堅合眾國憲法第十六條修正案|美國第16修正案]]判例法
| listclass = hlist
| image = 
|selected = {{{1|}}}
|state = {{{state|uncollapsed}}}

|group1    = 範圍
|list1     =
* ''[[Brushaber v. Union Pacific Railroad]]'' (1916)
* ''[[Stanton v. Baltic Mining Company]]'' (1916)
* ''[[Tyee Realty Co. v. Anderson]]'' (1916)

|group2    = 收入
|list2     =
* ''[[Stratton's Independence, Ltd. v. Howbert]]'' (1913)
* ''[[湯恩訴艾斯納案]]'' (1918)
* ''[[Eisner v. Macomber]]'' (1920)
* ''[[Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co.]]'' (1926)

| group3 = 應課公司股息稅
| list3  = 
* ''[[Lynch v. Turrish]]'' (1918)
* ''[[Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe]]'' (1918)
* ''[[Lynch v. Hornby]]'' (1918)
* ''[[Peabody v. Eisner]]'' (1918)
* ''[[Eisner v. Macomber]]'' (1920)
* ''[[United States v. Phellis]]'' (1921)
* ''[[Rockefeller v. United States]]'' (1921)
* ''[[Merchants' Loan & Trust v. Smietanka]]'' (1921)
* ''[[Miles v. Safe Deposit Co.]]'' (1922)
* ''[[Cullinan v. Walker]]'' (1923)
* ''[[Weiss v. Stearn]]'' (1924)
* ''[[Marr v. United States]]'' (1925)
* ''[[Koshland v. Helvering]]'' (1936)
* ''[[Helvering v. Gowran]]'' (1937)

| group4 = 應課公司收益稅
| list4  = 
* ''[[Edwards v. Cuba Railroad]]'' (1925)
* ''[[Burk-Waggoner Assoc. v. Hopkins]]'' (1925)
* ''[[Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. United States]]'' (1932)
* ''[[Continental Tie & Lumber Co. v. United States]]'' (1932)
* ''[[Helvering v. Mitchell]]'' (1938)
* ''[[Helvering v. National Grocery]]'' (1938)
* ''[[Helvering v. Northwest Steel Mills]]'' (1940)
* ''[[Crane-Johnson Co. v. Helvering]]'' (1940)
* ''[[Commissioner v. Glenshaw Glass Co.]]'' (1955)
* ''[[General American Investors Co. v. Commissioner]]'' (1955)
* ''[[Commissioner v. Gillette Motor Co.]]'' (1960)

| group5 = 應稅收益
| list5  = 
* ''[[Goodrich v. Edwards]]'' (1921)
* ''[[Walsh v. Brewster]]'' (1921)
* ''[[Taft v. Bowers]]'' (1929)
* ''[[Lucas v. Alexander]]'' (1929)
* ''[[Burnet v. Harmel]]'' (1932)
* ''[[United States v. Safety Car Heating Co.]]'' (1936)
* ''[[Helvering v. Bruun]]'' (1940)
* ''[[Helvering v. Horst]]'' (1940)
* ''[[Crane v. Commissioner]]'' (1947)
* ''[[United States v. Davis (1962)|United States v. Davis]]'' (1962)
* ''[[Commissioner v. Tufts]]'' (1983)

| group6 = 非法收入
| list6  = 
* ''[[United States v. Sullivan]]'' (1927)
* ''[[Rutkin v. United States]]'' (1952)
* ''[[Commissioner v. Sullivan]]'' (1958)
* ''[[James v. United States (1961)|James v. United States]]'' (1961)

| group7 = 扣除及豁免
| list7  = 
* ''[[Brushaber v. Union Pacific Railroad]]'' (1915)
* ''[[Burnet v. Sanford & Brooks Co.]]'' (1931)
* ''[[McLaughlin v. Alliance Ins. Co.]]'' (1932)
* ''[[Helvering v. Independent Life Ins. Co.]]'' (1934)
* ''[[Helvering v. Winmill]]'' (1938)
* ''[[Millinery Corp. v. Commissioner]]'' (1956)
* ''[[Tank Truck Rentals v. Commissioner]]'' (1958)
* ''[[Hoover Express Co. v. United States]]'' (1958)
* ''[[Cammarano v. United States]]'' (1959)
* ''[[United States v. General Dynamics Corp.]]'' (1987)
 
| group8 = 減少損失
| list8  = 
* ''[[Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co.]]'' (1926)

}}<noinclude>
{{collapsible option}}
[[Category:美國憲法導航模板]]
</noinclude>