{{Navbox with collapsible groups
|name      = US1stAmendment
|title     = [[美国宪法第一修正案]]判例法
|listclass = hlist
|selected  = {{{1|}}}
|state     ={{{state<includeonly>|autocollapse</includeonly>}}}

|group1 = {{le|政教分離條款|Establishment Clause}}
|state1 = {{{state1|collapsed}}}
|abbr1  = establishment
|list1  =
  {{Navbox|child

 | group1 = 公開展示及<br />儀式
  | list1  = 
* ''[[Stone v. Graham]]'' (1980)
* ''[[Marsh v. Chambers]]'' (1983)
* ''[[Lynch v. Donnelly]]'' (1984)
* ''[[Board of Trustees of Scarsdale v. McCreary]]'' (1985)
* ''[[County of Allegheny v. American Civil Liberties Union|County of Allegheny v. ACLU]]'' (1989)
* ''[[McCreary County v. American Civil Liberties Union|McCreary County v. ACLU of Kentucky]]'' (2005)
* ''[[Van Orden v. Perry]]'' (2005)
* ''[[Pleasant Grove City v. Summum]]'' (2009)
* ''[[Salazar v. Buono]]'' (2010)
* ''[[Town of Greece v. Galloway]]'' (2014)
<!-- * ''[[Lund v. Rowan County]]'' (4th Cir., 2017) -->
<!-- * ''[[Bormuth v. County of Jackson]]'' (6th Cir., 2017) -->
* ''[[The American Legion v. American Humanist Association|American Legion v. American Humanist Ass'n]]'' (2019)

  | group2 = 法定宗教豁免
  | list2  = 
* ''[[Walz v. Tax Commission of the City of New York|Walz v. Tax Comm'n of the City of New York]]'' (1970)
* ''[[Estate of Thornton v. Caldor, Inc.]]'' (1985)
* ''[[Corporation of Presiding Bishop of Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints v. Amos|Corp. of Presiding Bishop v. Amos]]'' (1987)
* ''[[Texas Monthly, Inc. v. Bullock]]'' (1989)
* ''[[City of Boerne v. Flores]]'' (1997)
* ''[[Cutter v. Wilkinson]]'' (2005)

  | group3 = 公共資金
  | list3  = 
* ''[[Everson v. Board of Education]]'' (1947)
* ''[[McCollum v. Board of Education]]'' (1948)
* ''[[Lemon v. Kurtzman]]'' (1971)
* ''[[Mueller v. Allen]]'' (1983)
* ''[[Aguilar v. Felton]]'' (1985)
* ''[[Board of Education of Kiryas Joel Village School District v. Grumet|Board of Ed. of Kiryas Joel Village School Dist. v. Grumet]]'' (1994)
* ''[[Agostini v. Felton]]'' (1997)
* ''[[Mitchell v. Helms]]'' (2000)
* ''[[Zelman v. Simmons-Harris]]'' (2002)
* ''[[Arizona Christian School Tuition Organization v. Winn|Arizona Christian Sch. Tuition Org. v. Winn]]'' (2011)

   | group4 = 宗教信仰<br />在公立學校
   | list4  = 
* ''[[Zorach v. Clauson]]'' (1952)
* ''[[Engel v. Vitale]]'' (1962)
* ''[[Abington School District v. Schempp]]'' (1963)
* ''[[Epperson v. Arkansas]]'' (1968)
* ''[[Stone v. Graham]]'' (1980)
* ''[[Wallace v. Jaffree]]'' (1985)
* ''[[Edwards v. Aguillard]]'' (1987)
* ''[[Westside Community Board of Education v. Mergens|Westside Community Board of Ed. v. Mergens]]'' (1990)
* ''[[Lee v. Weisman]]'' (1992)
* ''[[Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe|Santa Fe Ind. School Dist. v. Doe]]'' (2000)
* ''[[Elk Grove Unified School District v. Newdow|Elk Grove Unif. School Dist. v. Newdow]]'' (2004)
* ''[[奇茲米勒訴多佛學區案]]'' (M.D. Pa. 2005)

  | group5 = 私人宗教演說
  | list5  = 
* ''[[Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School District|Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School Dist.]]'' (1993)
* ''[[Capitol Square Review & Advisory Board v. Pinette]]'' (1995)
* ''[[Rosenberger v. University of Virginia|Rosenberger v. Univ. of Virginia]]'' (1995)
* ''[[Good News Club v. Milford Central School]]'' (2001)

  | group6 = 內部教會事務
  | list6  = 
* ''[[United States v. Ballard]]'' (1944)
* ''[[Presbyterian Church v. Hull Church]]'' (1969)
* ''[[Jones v. Wolf]]'' (1979)

  | group7 = 其它
  | list7  = 
* ''[[McGowan v. Maryland]]'' (1961)
* ''[[Torcaso v. Watkins]]'' (1961)
* ''[[Larkin v. Grendel's Den, Inc.]]'' (1982)
* ''[[Board of Education of Kiryas Joel Village School District v. Grumet|Board of Ed. of Kiryas Joel Village School Dist. v. Grumet]]'' (1994)
*''[[Trump v. Hawaii]]'' (2018)
  }}

|group2 = {{le|宗教活動自由條款|Free Exercise Clause}}
|state2 = {{{state2|collapsed}}}
|abbr2  = exercise
|list2  = 
* ''[[Reynolds v. United States]]'' (1879)
* ''[[Davis v. Beason]]'' (1890)
* ''[[Cantwell v. Connecticut]]'' (1940)
* ''[[Minersville School District v. Gobitis]]'' (1940)
* ''[[Jamison v. Texas]]'' (1943)
* ''[[Murdock v. Pennsylvania]]'' (1943)
* ''[[Tucker v. Texas]]'' (1946)
* ''[[Kunz v. New York]]'' (1951)
* ''[[Braunfeld v. Brown]]'' (1961)
* ''[[Sherbert v. Verner]]'' (1963)
* ''[[Wisconsin v. Yoder]]'' (1972)
* ''[[McDaniel v. Paty]]'' (1978)
* ''[[Harris v. McRae]]'' (1980)
* ''[[Thomas v. Review Board of the Indiana Employment Security Division|Thomas v. Review Board]]'' (1981)
* ''[[United States v. Lee (1982)|United States v. Lee]]'' (1982)
* ''[[Bob Jones University v. United States]]'' (1983)
* ''[[Bowen v. Roy]]'' (1986)
* ''[[Goldman v. Weinberger]]'' (1986)
* ''[[O'Lone v. Estate of Shabazz]]'' (1987)
* ''[[Employment Division v. Smith]]'' (1990)
* ''[[Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah]]'' (1993)
* ''[[Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. v. Village of Stratton|Watchtower Society v. Village of Stratton]]'' (2002)
<!-- Do not add Gonzales v. O Centro Espirita Beneficente Uniao do Vegetal (2006) or Burwell v. Hobby Lobby (2014) because these cases, although notable religious freedom cases, were decided under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, not the Free Exercise Clause -->
* ''[[Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission|Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Comm'n]]'' (2018)

 {{Navbox|child
  | group1 = 從公共利益中排除宗教
  | list1  =
* ''[[Locke v. Davey]]'' (2004)
* ''[[Trinity Lutheran Church of Columbia, Inc. v. Comer|Trinity Lutheran Church v. Comer]]'' (2017)
* ''[[Espinoza v. Montana Department of Revenue]]'' (2020)

  | group2 ={{le|教務豁免|Ministerial exception}}
  | list2  =
* ''[[Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church & School v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission|Hosanna-Tabor v. EEOC]]'' (2012)
* ''[[Our Lady of Guadalupe School v. Morrisey-Berru]]'' (2020)
  }}

| group3 = {{le|美國言論自由|Freedom of speech in the United States}}{{small|([[Portal:言论自由|言论自由主题]])}}
| state3 = {{{state3|collapsed}}}
| abbr3  = speech
| list3  =
  {{Navbox|child
  | group1 = 無保護言論
  | list1  = 
  {{Navbox|child
  | group1 = 煽動行為及<br />[[煽动叛乱]]
  | list1  = 
* [[客籍法和镇压叛乱法]] (1798)
* ''[[Masses Publishing Co. v. Patten]]'' (S.D.N.Y. 1917)
* ''[[申克诉合众国案]]（1919年）
* ''[[德布斯诉合众国案]]'' (1919)
* ''[[Abrams v. United States]]'' (1919)
* ''[[Gitlow v. New York]]'' (1925)
* ''[[惠特尼诉加利福尼亚州案]]'' (1927)
* ''[[Fiske v. Kansas]]'' (1927)
* ''[[丹尼斯诉合众国案]]'' (1951)
* ''[[Communist Party v. Subversive Activities Control Board|Communist Party v. Subversive Activities Control Bd.]]'' (1955; 1961)
* ''[[Yates v. United States]]'' (1957, [[clear and present danger]])
* ''[[Bond v. Floyd]]'' (1966)
* [[布兰登伯格诉俄亥俄州案]]（1969年，[[imminent lawless action]])
* ''[[Hess v. Indiana]]'' (1973)
* ''[[United States v. Williams (2008)|United States v. Williams]]'' (2008)

  | group2 = [[诽谤]]及</br>虛假言論
  | list2  = 
* [[纽约时报诉沙利文案]]（1964年）
* [[好色客杂志诉法威尔案]]（1988年）
* ''[[United States v. Alvarez]]'' (2012)
* ''[[Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus]]'' (2014)

  | group3 = {{le|挑釁性言論|Fighting words}}及<br />{{le|質問者否決權|heckler's veto}}
  | list3  = 
* ''[[Cantwell v. Connecticut]]'' (1940)
* ''[[Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire]]'' (1942)
* ''[[Terminiello v. Chicago]]'' (1949)
* ''[[Feiner v. New York]]'' (1951)
* ''[[Gregory v. Chicago]]'' (1969)
* [[科恩訴加利福尼亞州案]]（1971年）
* [[美國國家社會主義黨訴斯科基村案]]（1977年）
* ''[[R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul]]（1992年）
* [[斯奈德訴菲爾普斯案]]（2011年）

  | group4 = {{le|威脅|Threat}}
  | list4  =
* ''[[Watts v. United States]]'' (1969)
* ''[[NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware Co.]]'' (1982)
* ''[[Virginia v. Black]]'' (2003)

  | group5 = [[淫秽]]
  | list5  = 
* ''[[Rosen v. United States]]'' (1896)
* ''[[United States v. One Book Called Ulysses]]'' (S.D.N.Y. 1933)
* ''[[Roth v. United States]]'' (1957)
* ''[[One, Inc. v. Olesen]]'' (1958)
* ''[[Smith v. California]]'' (1959)
* ''[[Marcus v. Search Warrant]]'' (1961)
* ''[[MANual Enterprises, Inc. v. Day]]'' (1962)
* ''[[Jacobellis v. Ohio]]'' (1964)
* ''[[Quantity of Books v. Kansas]]'' (1964)
* ''[[Ginzburg v. United States]]'' (1966)
* ''[[Memoirs v. Massachusetts]]'' (1966)
* ''[[Redrup v. New York]]'' (1967)
* [[金斯伯格訴紐約州案]]（1968年）
* ''[[Stanley v. Georgia]]'' (1969)
* ''[[United States v. Thirty-seven Photographs]]'' (1971)
* ''[[Kois v. Wisconsin]]'' (1972)
* [[米勒訴加利福尼亞州案]]（1973年）
* ''[[Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton]]'' (1973)
* ''[[United States v. 12 200-ft. Reels of Film]]'' (1973)
* ''[[Jenkins v. Georgia]]'' (1974)
* ''[[Erznoznik v. City of Jacksonville]]'' (1975)
* ''[[Young v. American Mini Theatres, Inc.]]'' (1976)
* ''[[American Booksellers Ass'n, Inc. v. Hudnut]]'' (7th Cir., 1985)
* ''[[People v. Freeman]]'' (Cal. 1988)
* ''[[United States v. X-Citement Video, Inc.]]'' (1994)
* ''[[Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union|Reno v. ACLU]]'' (1997)
* ''[[United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc.]]'' (2000)
* ''[[Ashcroft v. American Civil Liberties Union|Ashcroft v. ACLU]]'' (2002)
* ''[[Nitke v. Gonzales]]'' (S.D.N.Y., 2005)
* ''[[American Booksellers Foundation for Free Expression v. Strickland]]'' (6th Cir., 2009)
* ''[[United States v. Kilbride]]'' (9th Cir., 2009)
* ''[[United States v. Stevens]]'' (2010)
* ''[[布朗訴娛樂商業協會案]]'' (2011)
* ''[[FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc. (2012)|FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc.]]'' (2012) <!-- the 2009 SCOTUS decision in the same litigation related to the Administrative Procedure Act, not the First Amendment -->

  | group6 = 犯罪行為</br>不可或缺言論
  | list6  =
* ''[[New York v. Ferber]]'' (1982)
* ''[[Osborne v. Ohio]]'' (1990)
* [[阿什克羅夫特訴言論自由聯盟案]]（2002年）
}}

  | group2 = 嚴格審查
  | list2  =
* ''[[Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project]]'' (2010)
* ''[[Williams-Yulee v. Florida Bar]]'' (2015)

  | group3 = 模糊性
  | list3  =
* ''[[Smith v. Goguen]]'' (1974)
* ''[[Board of Airport Commissioners of Los Angeles v. Jews for Jesus, Inc.|Board of Airport Commissioners v. Jews for Jesus]]'' (1987)
* ''[[Minnesota Voters Alliance v. Mansky]]'' (2018)

  | group4 = {{le|象徵性言語|Symbolic speech}}<br/>與行為
  | list4  = 
* ''[[Stromberg v. California]]'' (1931)
* ''[[United States v. O'Brien]]'' (1968)
* ''[[科恩訴加利福尼亞州案]]'' (1971)
* ''[[Clark v. Community for Creative Non-Violence]]'' (1984)
* ''[[Dallas v. Stanglin]]'' (1989)
* ''[[德克萨斯州诉约翰逊案]]（1989年）
* ''[[United States v. Eichman]]'' (1990)
* ''[[Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc.|Barnes v. Glen Theatre]]'' (1991)
* ''[[City of Erie v. Pap's A. M.]]'' (2000)
* ''[[Virginia v. Black]]'' (2003)

  | group5 = 基於內容</br>限制條件
  | list5  =
* ''[[R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul]]'' (1992)
* ''[[Reed v. Gilbert]]'' (2015)
* ''[[Barr v. American Assn. of Political Consultants, Inc.|Barr v. American Association of Political Consultants]]'' (2020)

  | group6 = 內容中立</br>限制條件
  | list6  =
* ''[[Schneider v. New Jersey]]'' (1939)
* ''[[Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc.]]'' (1986)
* ''[[City of Ladue v. Gilleo]]'' (1994)
* ''[[Packingham v. North Carolina]]'' (2017)
  {{Navbox|child

  | group1 = 在{{le|論壇 (法律)|Forum (legal)|公開論壇}}
  | list1  =
* ''[[Davis v. Massachusetts]]'' (1897)
* ''[[Hague v. Committee for Industrial Organization|Hague v. CIO]]'' (1939)
* ''[[Thornhill v. Alabama]]'' (1940)
* ''[[Martin v. City of Struthers]]'' (1943)
* ''[[Niemotko v. Maryland]]'' (1951)
* ''[[Edwards v. South Carolina]]'' (1963)
* ''[[Cox v. Louisiana]]'' (1965)
* ''[[Brown v. Louisiana]]'' (1966)
* ''[[Adderley v. Florida]]'' (1966)
* ''[[Carroll v. Town of Princess Anne]]'' (1968)
* ''[[Coates v. City of Cincinnati]]'' (1971)
* ''[[Organization for a Better Austin v. Keefe|Org. for a Better Austin v. Keefe]]'' (1971)
* ''[[Clark v. Community for Creative Non-Violence]]'' (1984)
* ''[[Frisby v. Schultz]]'' (1988)
* ''[[Ward v. Rock Against Racism]]'' (1989)
* ''[[Burson v. Freeman]]'' (1992)
* ''[[Schenck v. Pro-Choice Network of Western New York]]'' (1997)
* ''[[Hill v. Colorado]]'' (2000)
* ''[[McCullen v. Coakley]]'' (2014)

  | group2 = 指定公眾<br/>論壇
  | list2  =
* ''[[Widmar v. Vincent]]'' (1981)
* ''[[Rosenberger v. University of Virginia|Rosenberger v. Univ. of Virginia]]'' (1995)

  | group3 = 非公開<br/>論壇
  | list3  =
* ''[[Lehman v. Shaker Heights]]'' (1974)
* ''[[Perry Education Association v. Perry Local Educators' Association]]'' (1983)
* ''[[Minnesota Voters Alliance v. Mansky]]'' (2018)

  }}
  | group7 = 強迫演說
  | list7  = 
* ''[[Minersville School District v. Gobitis]]'' (1940)
* ''[[West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette|West Virginia State Board of Ed. v. Barnette]]'' (1943)
* ''[[Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo]]'' (1974)
* ''[[Wooley v. Maynard]]'' (1977)
* ''[[Pruneyard Shopping Center v. Robins]]'' (1980)
* ''[[Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Public Utilities Commission|Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of California]]'' (1986)
* ''[[Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Group of Boston]]'' (1995)
* ''[[National Institute of Family and Life Advocates v. Becerra]]'' (2018)

   |group8 = 強制補貼</br>別人演說
   |list8 =
* ''[[Abood v. Detroit Board of Education]]'' (1977)
* ''[[Communications Workers of America v. Beck]]'' (1978)
<!-- * ''[[Chicago Local Teachers Union v. Hudson]]'' (1986) -->
* ''[[Keller v. State Bar of California]]'' (1990)
* ''[[Lehnert v. Ferris Faculty Ass'n]]'' (1991)
<!-- * ''[[Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliot Inc.]]'' (1997) -->
* ''[[Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System v. Southworth|Board of Regents of the Univ. of Wisconsin System v. Southworth]]'' (2000)
<!-- * ''[[United States v. United Foods Inc.]]'' (2001) -->
* ''[[Johanns v. Livestock Marketing Association|Johanns v. Livestock Marketing Ass'n]]'' (2005)
* ''[[Davenport v. Washington Education Association|Davenport v. Washington Education Ass'n]]'' (2007)
* ''[[Locke v. Karass]]'' (2008)
* ''[[Knox v. Service Employees International Union, Local 1000|Knox v. SEIU, Local 1000]]'' (2012)
* ''[[Harris v. Quinn]]'' (2014)
* ''[[Friedrichs v. California Teachers Ass'n]]'' (2016)
* ''[[Janus v. AFSCME]]'' (2018)

   |group9 = 政府補助<br/>及補貼
   |list9 =
* ''[[Regan v. Taxation with Representation of Washington]]'' (1983)
* ''[[Rust v. Sullivan]]'' (1991)
* ''[[National Endowment for the Arts v. Finley]]'' (1998)
* ''[[Legal Services Corp. v. Velazquez]]'' (2001)
* ''[[USAID v. Alliance for Open Society (2013)|USAID v. Alliance for Open Society I]]'' (2013)
* ''[[USAID v. Alliance for Open Society (2020)|USAID v. Alliance for Open Society II]]'' (2020)

   |group10 = 政府為<br/>發言人
   |list10 =
* ''[[Walker v. Texas Division, Sons of Confederate Veterans|Walker v. Texas Div., Sons of Confederate Veterans]]'' (2015)
* ''[[Matal v. Tam]]'' (2017)
* ''[[Iancu v. Brunetti]]'' (2019)

  |group11 = [[效忠宣誓]]
  |list11 = 
* ''[[American Communications Association v. Douds|American Communications Ass'n v. Douds]]'' (1950)
* ''[[Garner v. Board of Public Works]]'' (1951)
* ''[[Speiser v. Randall]]'' (1958)
* ''[[Keyishian v. Board of Regents]]'' (1967)
* ''[[Communist Party of Indiana v. Whitcomb]]'' (1974)

  | group12 = {{le|學校演説 (第一修正案)|School speech (First Amendment)|學校演説}}
  | list12  = 
* ''[[Minersville School District v. Gobitis]]'' (1940)
* ''[[West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette]]'' (1943)
* ''[[Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School District|Tinker v. Des Moines Ind. Community School Dist.]]'' (1969, [[substantial disruption]])
* ''[[Island Trees School District v. Pico]]'' (1982)
* ''[[Bethel School District v. Fraser]]'' (1986)
* ''[[Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier]]'' (1988)
* ''[[Westside Community Board of Education v. Mergens|Westside Community Board of Ed. v. Mergens]]'' (1990)
* ''[[Rosenberger v. University of Virginia|Rosenberger v. Univ. of Virginia]]'' (1995)
* ''[[Morse v. Frederick]]'' (2007)
* ''[[Gillman v. Holmes County School District]]'' (2008)

  | group13 = 公職人員
  | list13  = 
* ''[[Pickering v. Board of Education]]'' (1968)
* ''[[Elrod v. Burns]]'' (1976)
* ''[[Mt. Healthy City School District Board of Education v. Doyle|Mt. Healthy City School Dist. Board of Ed. v. Doyle]]'' (1977)
* ''[[Givhan v. Western Line Consolidated School District|Givhan v. Western Line Consol. School Dist.]]'' (1979)
* ''[[Connick v. Myers]]'' (1983)
* ''[[Rankin v. McPherson]]''  (1987)
* ''[[Rutan v. Republican Party of Illinois]]'' (1990)
* ''[[Waters v. Churchill]]'' (1994)
* ''[[Garcetti v. Ceballos]]'' (2006)
* ''[[Borough of Duryea v. Guarnieri]]'' (2011)
* ''[[Lane v. Franks]]'' (2014)
* [[赫夫南诉帕特森市案]]（2016年）

  | group14 = {{le|哈奇法1939年|Hatch Act of 1939|哈奇法}}及<br />類似法律
  | list14  = 
* ''[[Ex parte Curtis]]'' (1882)
* ''[[United Public Workers v. Mitchell]]'' (1947)
* ''[[United States Civil Service Commission v. National Ass'n of Letter Carriers|U.S. Civil Service Comm'n v. National Ass'n of Letter Carriers]]'' (1973)
* ''[[Broadrick v. Oklahoma]]'' (1973)

  | group15 = 演説許可<br/>及限制
  | list15 =
* ''[[Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Commission of Ohio|Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Comm'n of Ohio]]'' (1915)
* ''[[Cox v. New Hampshire]]'' (1941)
* ''[[Murdock v. Pennsylvania]]'' (1943)
* ''[[Kunz v. New York]]'' (1951)
* ''[[Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson]]'' (1952)
* ''[[Kingsley Books, Inc. v. Brown]]'' (1957)
* ''[[NAACP v. Button]]'' (1963)
* ''[[Freedman v. Maryland]]'' (1965)
* ''[[Hoffman Estates v. The Flipside, Hoffman Estates, Inc.]]'' (1982)
* ''[[Forsyth County v. Nationalist Movement]]'' (1992)

  | group16 = {{le|商業演說|Commercial speech}}
  | list16  = 
* ''[[Valentine v. Chrestensen]]'' (1942)
* ''[[Rowan v. United States Post Office Department|Rowan v. U.S. Post Office Dept.]]'' (1970)
* ''[[Pittsburgh Press Co. v. Pittsburgh Commission on Human Relations|Pittsburgh Press Co. v. Pittsburgh Comm'n on Human Relations]]'' (1973)
* ''[[Bigelow v. Virginia]]'' (1975)
* ''[[Virginia State Pharmacy Board v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council|Virginia State Pharmacy Bd. v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council]]'' (1976)
* ''[[Bates v. State Bar of Arizona]]'' (1977)
* ''[[Linmark Associates, Inc. v. Township of Willingboro|Linmark Assoc., Inc. v. Township of Willingboro]]'' (1977)
* ''[[Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp. v. Public Service Commission]]'' (1980)
* ''[[Consolidated Edison Co. v. Public Service Commission|Consol. Edison Co. v. Public Serv. Comm'n]]'' (1980)
* ''[[Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio|Zauderer v. Off. of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio]]'' (1985)
* ''[[Posadas de Puerto Rico Associates v. Tourism Co. of Puerto Rico|Posadas de Puerto Rico Assoc. v. Tourism Co. of Puerto Rico]]'' (1986)
* ''[[San Francisco Arts & Athletics, Inc. v. United States Olympic Committee|San Francisco Arts & Athletics, Inc. v. U.S. Olympic Committee]]'' (1987)
* ''[[Lebron v. National Railroad Passenger Corp.]]'' (1995)
* ''[[Florida Bar v. Went For It, Inc.]]'' (1995)
* ''[[44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island]]'' (1996)
* ''[[Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly]]'' (2001)
* ''[[Sorrell v. IMS Health Inc.]]'' (2011)

  | group17 = 競選財務<br />及政治演説
  | list17  = 
* ''[[Buckley v. Valeo]]'' (1976)
* ''[[First National Bank of Boston v. Bellotti]]'' (1978)
* ''[[Citizens Against Rent Control v. City of Berkeley]]'' (1981)
* ''[[FEC v. National Conservative PAC]]'' (1985)
* ''[[FEC v. Massachusetts Citizens for Life]]'' (1986)
* ''[[Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce]]'' (1990)
* ''[[Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Committee v. FEC]]'' (1996)
* ''[[Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC]]'' (2000)
* ''[[Republican Party of Minnesota v. White]]'' (2002)
* ''[[McConnell v. FEC]]'' (2003)
* ''[[Randall v. Sorrell]]'' (2006)
* ''[[FEC v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc.]]'' (2007)
* ''[[Davis v. FEC]]'' (2008)
* ''[[联合公民诉联邦选举委员会案]]'' (2010)
* ''[[Arizona Free Enterprise Club's Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett]]'' (2011)
* ''[[Western Tradition Partnership, Inc. v. Montana|American Tradition Partnership v. Bullock]]'' (2012)
* ''[[McCutcheon v. FEC]]'' (2014)
* ''[[Williams-Yulee v. Florida Bar]]'' (2015)
* ''[[Thompson v. Hebdon]]'' (2019)

  | group18 = 匿名演講
  | list18 =
* ''[[NAACP v. Alabama]]'' (1958)
* ''[[Buckley v. Valeo]]'' (1976)
* ''[[Brown v. Socialist Workers '74 Campaign Committee]]'' (1982)
* ''[[McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission|McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n]]'' (1995)
* ''[[Doe v. Reed]]'' (2010)

  | group19 = 州議案
  | list19 =
* ''[[Marsh v. Alabama]]'' (1946)
* ''[[Lloyd Corp. v. Tanner]]'' (1972)
* ''[[Manhattan Community Access Corp. v. Halleck]]'' (2019)

  | group20 = 官方報復
  | list20 =
* ''[[Lozman v. City of Riviera Beach]]'' (2018)
* ''[[Nieves v. Bartlett]]'' (2019)
  }}

| group4 = [[美国新闻自由]]
| state4 = {{{state4|collapsed}}}
| abbr4  = press
| list4  =
  {{Navbox|child

  | group1 = {{le|先行制止|Prior restraint}}及<br />[[审查制度]]
  | list1  = 
* ''[[Patterson v. Colorado]]'' (1907)
* ''[[Near v. Minnesota]]'' (1931)
* ''[[Lovell v. City of Griffin]]'' (1938)
* ''[[Tucker v. Texas]]'' (1946)
* ''[[Hannegan v. Esquire, Inc.]]'' (1946)
* ''[[Lamont v. Postmaster General]]'' (1965)
* ''[[纽约时报诉合众国案]]'' (1971)
* ''[[Nebraska Press Ass'n v. Stuart]]'' (1976)
* ''[[Landmark Communications, Inc. v. Virginia]]'' (1978)
<!-- * ''[[Loewen v. Turnipseed]]'' (N.D. Miss., 1980) -->
* ''[[Tory v. Cochran]]'' (2005)

  |group2 = 隱私
  |list2 =
* ''[[Time, Inc. v. Hill]]'' (1967)
* ''[[Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn]]'' (1975)
* ''[[Florida Star v. B. J. F.]]'' (1989)

  | group3 = 稅收及特權
  | list3  = 
* ''[[Grosjean v. American Press Co.]]'' (1936)
* ''[[Branzburg v. Hayes]]'' (1972)
* ''[[Houchins v. KQED, Inc.]]'' (1978)
* ''[[Minneapolis Star Tribune Co. v. Commissioner]]'' (1983)
* ''[[Cohen v. Cowles Media Co.]]'' (1991)

  | group4 = [[诽谤]]
  | list4  = 
* ''[[Beauharnais v. Illinois]]'' (1952)
* ''[[纽约时报诉沙利文案]]'' (1964)
* ''[[Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts]]'' (1967)
* ''[[Greenbelt Cooperative Publishing Ass'n, Inc. v. Bresler]]'' (1970)
* ''[[Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc.]]'' (1974)
* ''[[Time, Inc. v. Firestone]]'' (1976)
* ''[[Bose Corp. v. Consumers Union of United States, Inc.]]'' (1984)
* ''[[Dun & Bradstreet, Inc. v. Greenmoss Builders, Inc.]]'' (1985)
* ''[[McDonald v. Smith]]'' (1985)
* ''[[好色客杂志诉法威尔案]]'' (1988)
* ''[[Harte-Hanks Communications, Inc. v. Connaughton]]'' (1989)
* ''[[Milkovich v. Lorain Journal Co.]]'' (1990)
* ''[[Obsidian Finance Group, LLC v. Cox]]'' (9th Cir., 2014)

  | group5 = 廣播媒體
  | list5  = 
* ''[[Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC]]'' (1969)
* ''[[聯邦通訊委員會訴太平洋電台案]]'' (1978)
* ''[[Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC]]'' (1994)
* ''[[Bartnicki v. Vopper]]'' (2001)

  | group6 = 版權材料
  | list6  = 
* ''[[Zacchini v. Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Co.]]'' (1977)
* ''[[Harper & Row v. Nation Enterprises]]'' (1985)
* ''[[Eldred v. Ashcroft]]'' (2003)
  }}
|group5 = [[結社自由#實踐|結社自由]]
|abbr5  = association
|list5  = 
* ''[[Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee v. McGrath]]'' (1951)
* ''[[Watkins v. United States]]'' (1957)
* ''[[NAACP v. Alabama]]'' (1958)
* ''[[NAACP v. Button]]'' (1963)
* ''[[Baggett v. Bullitt]]'' (1964)
* ''[[In re Primus]]'' (1978)
* ''[[Roberts v. United States Jaycees]]'' (1984)
* ''[[Dallas v. Stanglin]]'' (1989)
* ''[[Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Group of Boston]]'' (1995)
* ''[[California Democratic Party v. Jones]]'' (2000)
* ''[[美國童軍訴戴爾案]]'' (2000)
* ''[[Christian Legal Society v. Martinez]]'' (2010)

|group6 = {{le|美國權利請願書|Freedom to petition in the United States}}
|abbr6  = petition
|list6  =
*''[[United States v. Cruikshank]]'' (1876)
*''[[Thomas v. Collins]]'' (1945)
*''[[Eastern Railroad Presidents Conference v. Noerr Motor Freight, Inc.]]'' (1961)
*''[[NAACP v. Button]]'' (1963)
*''[[Edwards v. South Carolina]]'' (1963)
*''[[United Mine Workers v. Pennington]]'' (1965)
*''[[Cox v. Louisiana]]'' (1965)
*''[[California Motor Transport Co. v. Trucking Unlimited]]'' (1972)
*''[[ Smith v. Arkansas State Highway Employees]]'' (1979)
*''[[McDonald v. Smith]]'' (1985)
*''[[Meyer v. Grant]]'' (1988)
*''[[Buckley v. American Constitutional Law Foundation]]'' (1999)
*''[[BE and K Construction Co. V. National Labor Relations Board]]'' (2002)
*''[[Doe v. Reed]]'' (2010)
*''[[Borough of Duryea v. Guarnieri]]'' (2011)

}}<noinclude>
{{collapsible option}}
[[Category:美國主題導航模板]]
[[Category:法律導航模板]]
[[Category:美國憲法導航模板]]
</noinclude>