{{Documentation subpage}}
<!-- PLEASE ADD CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE -->

This template is the project banner for '''[[Wikipedia:WikiProject Alternative music|WikiProject Alternative music]]'''. This template is a self-reference.

The template is to be placed on '''talk pages''' (only) of the articles identified as being within the Project's scope (at or near the top of the talkpage).

This template automatically assigns the category [[:Category:WikiProject Alternative music articles]] to the articles' talk pages. This category and other associated Project categories are used in various ways by the Project in the overall management of the Project's workload.

This template contains optional parameters, details of usage are given below.

=== 使用方法 ===
General syntax options for this template are as follows:
<pre>
{{Wikiproject Alternative music
 |class=
 |importance=
 |pixies-taskforce=
 |nirvana-taskforce=
 |supergrass-taskforce=
 |pumpkins-taskforce=
}}
</pre>
The parameters are named, and (if used) must be entered exactly as-is (note, all are lowercase).

The ''class'' and ''importance'' parameters are associated with the Project's '''[[Wikipedia:WikiProject Alternative music/Assessment|article assessment and rating scheme]]'''. These parameters add a category to the talkpage, which category depends on the values chosen.

==== 參數 ====
===== 質量 =====
This optional parameter records the Project '''quality assessment rating''' currently assigned to the particular article on whose talkpage the project banner appears.

If unassigned, or an invalid value is given, the parameter defaults to "unassigned" and the template places the talkpage into [[:Category:Unassessed Alternative music articles]].

Valid values for this parameter, their associated meanings and categories are given in the table below. Values should be typed as shown (eg ''|class=GA'' ):
{| class="wikitable"
|+質量級別參數 ([[:Category:Alternative music articles by quality]])
|-
!級別
!代表意義
!所屬分類
|-
!FA
|Articles which are currently [[WP:FA|Featured status]] articles||[[:Category:FA-Class Alternative music articles]]
|-
! A
|A-class articles; ||[[:Category:A-Class Alternative music articles]]
|-
! GA
|Articles with a current [[WP:GA|Good article]] status||[[:Category:GA-Class Alternative music articles]]
|-
! B
|B-class articles; ||[[:Category:B-Class Alternative music articles]]
|-
! C
|C-class articles; ||[[:Category:C-Class Alternative music articles]]
|-
! Start
|Start-class articles; ||[[:Category:Start-Class Alternative music articles]]
|-
! Stub
|Stub-class articles; ||[[:Category:Stub-Class Alternative music articles]]
|-
! NA
|Not applicable; for miscellaneous pages which do not require an assessment||[[:Category:NA-Class Alternative music articles]]
|}

===== 重要度 =====
This optional parameter records the Project '''priority assessment rating''' currently assigned to the particular article on whose talkpage the project banner appears.

If unassigned, or an invalid value is given, or the ''class'' parameter is set to "NA", the parameter defaults to "unassigned" and the template places the talkpage into [[:Category:Unassigned-importance Alternative music articles]].

{| class="wikitable"
|+重要度級別參數 ([[:Category:Alternative music articles by importance]])
|-
!級別
!代表意義
!所屬分類
|-
! Top
|"Key" articles, considered indispensable||[[:Category:Top-importance Alternative music articles|Top-importance Alternative music articles]]
|-
! High
|High-priority topics and needed subtopics of "key" articles, often with a broad scope; needed to complement any general understanding of the field ||[[:Category:High-importance Alternative music articles|High-importance Alternative music articles]]
|-
! Mid
|Mid-priority articles on more specialised (sub-)topics; possibly more detailed coverage of topics summarised in "key" articles, and as such their omission would not significantly impair general understanding||[[:Category:Mid-importance Alternative music articles|Mid-importance Alternative music articles]]
|-
! Low
|While still notable, these are highly-specialised or even obscure, not essential for understanding the wider picture ("nice to have" articles)||[[:Category:Low-importance Alternative music articles|Low-importance Alternative music articles]]
|}

<!-- === See also ===
 -->
<includeonly>
<!-- CATEGORIES AND INTERWIKIS BELOW THIS LINE PLEASE -->
[[Category:另類搖滾專題|τWPBanner]]

[[en:Template:WikiProject Alternative music]]
</includeonly>