<div class="template-documentation">
'''WPBannerMeta'''有一系列能强化或自订功能的'''[[钩子函数|钩子]]'''。它们应当以子模板形式，通过相关钩子参数传递。所有相关参数都需要在钩子模板中传递——即时参数已经在主模板输入了一遍（常见的如{{para|category|&#123;&#123;&#123;category&#124;¬&#125;&#125;&#125;}}和{{para|class|&#123;&#123;&#123;class&#124;¬&#125;&#125;&#125;}}）。如果您认为自己的钩子对其他专题有用，请将其列于下方列表。

=== 编写钩子 ===

钩子应模仿WPBannerMeta模板元功能谨慎设计，特别是分类输出和评级过滤器的大小写敏感性；为便于维护，钩子的参数命名应贴近WPBannerMeta默认参数。

=== 可用钩子参数 ===

* {{para|HOOK_ASSESS}} – 位于质量和重要度评级间。
* {{para|HOOK_BOTTOM}} – 紧接意见区，后接{{para|BOTTOM_TEXT}}。请使用此参数在模板底部添加功能，而非将钩子挂载到{{para|BOTTOM_TEXT}}。
* {{para|HOOK_NOTE}} – 在最后提示代码之后，意见区之前。
* {{para|HOOK_COLLAPSED}} – 为页面触发的提示计数，超过后提示区会折叠。可以输入任何<tt>[[mw:Help:Extension:ParserFunctions##expr:|#expr:]]</tt>解析器能识别的内容；或者输入“auto”，which automatically sets to 1 if HOOK_NOTE is non-empty and 0 otherwise. This is the default setting and is suitable if HOOK_NOTE will not normally produce more than one row of output。
* {{para|HOOK_IMPORTANCE}} - 在重要度评级和自动评级提示之间。
* {{para|HOOK_NESTED}} – 在工作组列表后，横幅被{{tl|WikiProjectBannerShell}}嵌套时生效。
* {{para|HOOK_TF}} – 在工作组代码之后，{{para|attention}}之前。

=== 现存钩子 ===
{{selfref|参见：[[Special:前缀索引/{{FULLPAGENAME}}|钩子子页面完整列表]]}}

*[[/aclass]] – enables an A-Class review process to be integrated into the banner.
*[[/article todolist]] – allows for easy adding of a article specific to-do list (hooks to {{para|HOOK_BOTTOM}}).
*[[/bchecklist]] – enables a B-class checklist
*[[/cats]] &ndash; add categories based on parameters with proper optout, case insensitivity, etc.
*[[/collaboration]] &ndash; enables integration of project collaboration into the banner.
*[[/collapsed]] &ndash; enables adding another collapsed section.
*[[/image needed]] &ndash; adds an alert that an image is requested for the article.
*[[/notecounter]] – allows notes, etc. added in HOOK_NOTE to contribute towards the counter that triggers the notes being collapsed.
*[[/notes]] &ndash; provides ten additional notes.  Hooks to {{para|HOOK_NOTE}}.
*[[/peerreview]] – enables peer review functions.
*[[/qualimpintersect]] – allows for quality and importance category intersection.
*[[/qualitycats]] – enables categorisation with an additional quality scale.
*[[/taskforces]] – provides ten additional taskforces (hooks to {{para|HOOK_TF}}).
*[[/tfnested]] – nested summaries for ten additional taskforces.  Works with [[/taskforces]] above.  Hooks to {{para|HOOK_NESTED}}.
*[[/todolist]] – allows for easy adding of a project wide to-do list (hooks to {{para|HOOK_BOTTOM}}).
</div>