{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Speciesbox
| name = 二尾鳳蝶
| fossil_range = {{fossilrange|14|0|earliest=}}<small>從新近紀[[中新世|中新世]]至今<ref name=c2015>Condamine, F. L., Rolland, J., Höhna, S., Sperling, F. A., & Sanmartín, I. (2018). Testing the role of the Red Queen and Court Jester as drivers of the macroevolution of Apollo butterflies. Systematic biology, 67(6), 940-964. {{en}}</ref></small>
| image = 
| image_width = 300px
| image_caption = 
| image2 = 
| image2_width = 300px
| image2_caption = 
| status = VU
| status_system = iucn3.1
| status_ref = <ref name=iucn>Fernando, E., Hu, S. & Lo, P. 2020. Bhutanitis mansfieldi. The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species 2020: e.T2797A122599264. https://dx.doi.org/10.2305/IUCN.UK.2020-2.RLTS.T2797A122599264.en. {{en}}</ref>
| genus = Bhutanitis
| species = mansfieldi
| authority = (Riley, 1939)
| range_map = 
| range_map_width = 
| range_map_caption = 
| subdivision_ranks = 亞種
| subdivision = 
| synonyms = 
* ''Armandia mansfieldi''<br><small>Riley, 1939</small>
* 麗斑尾鳳蝶 ''Bhutanitis pulchristriata''
}}

'''二尾鳳蝶'''（學名：''Bhutanitis mansfieldi''，英文俗名：Mansfield's Three-tailed Swallowtail）是[[鳳蝶科|鳳蝶科]][[尾鳳蝶屬|尾鳳蝶屬]]的一種[[蝴蝶|蝴蝶]]，是[[中國|中國]]特有種，分佈於[[四川|四川]]和[[雲南|雲南]]。一年一代，成蟲多見於3至4月。幼蟲[[寄主|寄主]]為有毒性的[[寶興馬兜鈴|寶興馬兜鈴]]。<ref name=c2017>{{Cite book|author=武春生、徐堉峯|title=中國蝴蝶圖鑑（全4冊）|publisher=海峡书局|date=2017|ISBN=9787556703029|language=zh-hans|page=239-243}}</ref><ref>Saigusa, T., Lee, C., 1982. A rare papilionid butterfly Bhutanitis mansfieldi (Riley), its rediscovery, new subspecies and phylogenetic position. Tyô to Ga 33: 1-24.</ref>

此種被列入中國國家林業局令[[國家保護的有益的或者有重要經濟、科學研究價值的陸生野生動物名錄|國家保護的有益的或者有重要經濟、科學研究價值的陸生野生動物名錄]]<ref name=c2006>{{Cite book|author=寿建新 周尧 李宇飞|title=世界蝴蝶分類名錄|location=中國|publisher=陝西科學技術出版社|date=2006-04-01|ISBN=9787536936768|page=|language=zh-hans}}</ref>。數量有下跌趨勢<ref name=iucn/>。

== 形態 ==
中小型鳳蝶。體翅褐色，尾突2枚，複眼周圍具毛，觸角腹面鋸齒狀。雄蝶前背面褐色，前翅佈有7條波曲的黃色寬帶。後翅有粗重的黃色網紋，臀角具紅色弧形斑，下方具3枚模糊的灰斑，外緣具橙黃色斑。腹面斑紋如背面，鱗片稀少而呈油紙狀，黃紋寬闊發達。雌蝶斑紋似雄蝶，翅色更淡，黃紋更寬。<ref name=c2017/>

== 參考 ==
{{reflist|}}

== 文獻 ==
* Riley, N.D., 1939. A new species of Armandia (Lep. Papilionidae). Entomologist 72: 207-208.
* Hiura, I., 1980. A phylogeny of the genera of Parnassiinae based on analysis of wing pattern, with description of a anew genus (Lepiopdtera: Papilionidae). Bulletin of the Osaka Museum of Natural History 33: 71-85.
* Collins, N.M., Morris, M.G., 1985. Threatened Swallowtail Butterflies of the World: The IUCN Red data book. Gland, Switzerland. 401 pp.
* Lee, C., 1986. First report on the life histories and phylogenetic position of two Chinese Papilionidae, Bhutanitis mansfieldi and B. thaidiana. Yadoriga 126: 17-21.
* Chou, I., 1992. A Study on the rare butterflies of the genus Bhutanitis (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae) with descriptions of two new species. Entomotaxonomia, 14: 48-54.
* Bai, J., Wang, X., 1998. Swallowtail butterflies in China. The Shu-Sheng Press, Taibei, China.
* Coote, L., 2000. CITES identification guide - Butterflies: Guide to the Identification of Butterfly Species Controlled Under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Ottawa: Canadian Wildlife Service.
* Chunsheng, W., 2001. Zhongguo dong wu zhi. Kun chong gang. Di 25 juan, Lin chi mu feng die ke : feng die ya ke, ju feng die ya ke, juan die ya ke / Wu Chunsheng bian zhu ; Zhongguo ke xue yuan Zhongguo dong wu zhi bian ji wei yuan hui zhu bian. Fauna Sinica, Insecta Vol. 25: Lepidoptera Papilionidae; Papilioninae, Zerynthiinae, Parnassiinae. Beijing, Ke xue chu ban she, 367 pp.
* Igarashi, S., 2003. Life history of Bhutanitis mansfieldi in comparison with those of related species. Butterflies (Publication of the Butterfly Society of Japan), 35:20-39.
* Zhu, L.X., Wu, X.B., Yan, P., 2005. Molecular phylogenetic relationships among four species of Bhutanitis (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae) based on partial COI gene sequence. Acta Zootaxonomica Sinica 31: 25-30.

== 外部連結 ==
* {{Commonscat-inline|Bhutanitis mansfieldi}}
* {{Wikispecies-inline|Bhutanitis mansfieldi}}
* [https://www.nic.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/papilionidae/parnassiinae/bhutanitis/#mansfieldi ''Bhutanitis mansfieldi'']{{Wayback|url=https://www.nic.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/papilionidae/parnassiinae/bhutanitis/#mansfieldi |date=20201128232302 }} - funet.fi {{en}}
* [http://tolweb.org/Bhutanitis_mansfieldi/65410 ''Bhutanitis mansfieldi'']{{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Bhutanitis_mansfieldi/65410 |date=20201129095652 }} - Tree of Life Web Project {{en}}
{{Taxonbar}}
{{-}}
{{尾鳳蝶屬|state=expanded}}
[[Category:尾鳳蝶屬|Category:尾鳳蝶屬]]
[[Category:中國蝴蝶|Category:中國蝴蝶]]