{{NoteTA
|G1 = IT
|G2 = Math
}}
在[[计算机科学|计算机科学]]中，'''二元决策图'''（{{lang-en|'''binary decision diagram, BDD'''}}），或译为'''二元判定图'''，是被用来表达一个[[布尔函数|布尔函数]]的一种[[数据结构|数据结构]]。

== 延伸阅读 ==
* D. E. Knuth, "The Art of Computer Programming Volume 4, Fascicle 1: Bitwise tricks & techniques;  Binary Decision Diagrams" (Addison–Wesley Professional, March 27, 2009) viii+260pp, ISBN 0-321-58050-8. [http://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/fasc1b.ps.gz Draft of Fascicle 1b]{{Wayback|url=http://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/fasc1b.ps.gz |date=20160312073634 }} available for download.
* H. R. Andersen "[https://web.archive.org/web/20140222052815/http://configit.com/configit_wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/bdd-eap.pdf An Introduction to Binary Decision Diagrams,]" Lecture Notes, 1999, IT University of Copenhagen.
* Ch. Meinel, T. Theobald, "[http://www.hpi.uni-potsdam.de/fileadmin/hpi/FG_ITS/books/OBDD-Book.pdf Algorithms and Data Structures in VLSI-Design: OBDD – Foundations and Applications"]{{Wayback|url=http://www.hpi.uni-potsdam.de/fileadmin/hpi/FG_ITS/books/OBDD-Book.pdf |date=20150924032436 }}, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, 1998. Complete textbook available for download.
* {{cite book|author1=Rüdiger Ebendt|author2=Görschwin Fey|author3=Rolf Drechsler|title=Advanced BDD optimization|year=2005|publisher=Springer|isbn=978-0-387-25453-1}}
* {{cite book|author1=Bernd Becker|author2=Rolf Drechsler|title=Binary Decision Diagrams: Theory and Implementation|year=1998|publisher=Springer|isbn=978-1-4419-5047-5}}

== 外部链接 ==
{{Commons category|Binary decision diagrams}}
'''Available OBDD Packages'''
* [http://fmv.jku.at/abcd/ ABCD]{{Wayback|url=http://fmv.jku.at/abcd/ |date=20201024114212 }}: The ABCD package by Armin Biere, Johannes Kepler Universität, Linz.
* [http://www-2.cs.cmu.edu/~modelcheck/bdd.html CMU BDD]{{Wayback|url=http://www-2.cs.cmu.edu/~modelcheck/bdd.html |date=20110926232927 }}, BDD package, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
* [http://buddy.sourceforge.net/manual/ BuDDy]{{Wayback|url=http://buddy.sourceforge.net/manual/ |date=20160305055515 }}: A BDD package by Jørn Lind-Nielsen
* [http://biddy.meolic.com/ Biddy]{{Wayback|url=http://biddy.meolic.com/ |date=20191228073101 }}: Academic multiplatform BDD package, University of Maribor
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20080603164118/http://vlsi.colorado.edu/~fabio/CUDD/ CUDD]: BDD package, University of Colorado, Boulder
* [http://javabdd.sourceforge.net JavaBDD]{{Wayback|url=http://javabdd.sourceforge.net/ |date=20200422142520 }}, a Java port of BuDDy that also interfaces to CUDD, CAL, and JDD
* [http://javaddlib.sourceforge.net/jdd/ JDD]{{Wayback|url=http://javaddlib.sourceforge.net/jdd/ |date=20180116225751 }} is a pure java implementation of BDD and ZBDD. [http://javaddlib.sourceforge.net/jbdd/ JBDD]{{Wayback|url=http://javaddlib.sourceforge.net/jbdd/ |date=20160305112752 }} by the same author has a similar API but is a Java interface to BuDDy and CUDD
* The Berkeley [https://web.archive.org/web/20140223023856/http://embedded.eecs.berkeley.edu/Research/cal_bdd/ CAL] package which does breadth-first manipulation
* [http://ddd.lip6.fr DDD]{{Wayback|url=http://ddd.lip6.fr/ |date=20170709174244 }}: A C++ library with support for integer valued and hierarchical decision diagrams.
* [https://archive.is/20130105201510/http://www.jossowski.de/projects/jinc/jinc.html JINC]: A C++ library developed at University of Bonn, Germany, supporting several BDD variants and multi-threading.
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20111101143950/http://myvideos.stanford.edu/player/slplayer.aspx?coll=ea60314a-53b3-4be2-8552-dcf190ca0c0b&co=18bcd3a8-965a-4a63-a516-a1ad74af1119&o=true Fun With Binary Decision Diagrams (BDDs)], lecture by [[Donald_Knuth|Donald Knuth]]

[[Category:布尔代数|Category:布尔代数]]
[[Category:图表|Category:图表]]
[[Category:数据结构|Category:数据结构]]