'''二犬十一咪'''（{{lang-en|seemanho}}）是一位本地裝置藝術家及插畫家，畢業於[[香港理工大學|香港理工大學]]設計系，以畫作表現平等與美好的理念，強調生態保育及動物權益。她曾獲頒裝置展覽的藝術雙年獎。作品包括《二犬．車花衫．煲藥湯》、《娘足十年》等。

Multimedia artist. Creating varies art forms including installations, paintings, writings, music, theatres, sculptures and videos. 

seemanho introduced the art form  “eco art” to Hong Kong in 2010. Her work “Reclamation exercise Eco Art Exhibition” aimed to promote “art-diversity” in Hong Kong. Her book “They are the eyes of equals ”was published in 2013 which is the first book about animal right and welfare in Hong Kong. Her book “Circle Round the Universe” was published in 2012 which is also a pioneer local reading on animal liberation. 

Her installation exhibition, “A Tree To Be Found” was awarded in the Hong Kong Art Biennial 2003. This work was subsequently purchased and collected by the Hong Kong Museum of Art. Other than in Hong Kong, her works have been exhibited in Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, China, France, Taiwan, Singapore, The UK and The USA, etc.

“Seemanho. Making Clothes .Making Herbal Soup” was awarded Bronze Prize in Book Design in the Hong Kong Designers Association Awards 2005. Her animation work titled “The circus of n_n, v_v”, was invited to participate in the Hong Kong International Film Festival and France Short Film Festival (France). 

She has been invited as residential artist in the USA (2006/2007/ 2014), Hong Kong (2005) and France (2002) for international artist exchange program. 

Apart from her career as a visual artist and writer, seemanho is also a handpan and tongue drum musician, theatre director and theatre costume designer. 


<ref>{{cite news |url=http://hd.stheadline.com/arts/arts_content.asp?contid=124256&srctype=g |title=二犬十一咪 尊重生命 |publisher=頭條日報 |date= |accessdate=2018-02-02 |archive-date=2018-02-03 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20180203005819/http://hd.stheadline.com/arts/arts_content.asp?contid=124256&srctype=g |dead-url=no }}</ref>

==生平==
二犬十一咪（何詩敏）畢業於[[香港理工大學|香港理工大學]]，從事[[出版|出版]]、[[漫畫|漫畫]]、[[動畫|動畫]]、[[電影|電影]]、[[劇場|劇場]]、[[插畫|插畫]]、[[時裝|時裝]]、[[裝置藝術|裝置藝術]]等不同範疇的創作工作。其作品在世界各地發表過，在香港藝術界有代表性，作品也被藝術館收藏。

她的作品充滿[[自然|自然]]氣息，像[[詩|詩]]般[[故事|故事]]。意涵多探討[[生命|生命]][[平等|平等]]，一向喜歡使用被遺棄之物料創作。透過作品，思考自然世界和[[人類|人類]]世界的[[矛盾|矛盾]]。作品被邀展於[[西班牙|西班牙]]、[[葡萄牙|葡萄牙]]、[[瑞士|瑞士]]、[[法國|法國]]、[[美國|美國]]、[[日本|日本]]、[[台灣|台灣]]及[[新加坡|新加坡]]等地。2002年，她曾到法國當國際駐場藝術家。2006及2007年，擔任美國國際駐場藝術家，展覽作品被私人收藏。

除跟不同商業機構合作外，二犬十一咪常與[[樂施會|樂施會]]、[[綠色和平|綠色和平]]、[[展能藝術會|展能藝術會]]、[[關注婦女性暴力協會|關注婦女性暴力協會]]及[[香港電台|香港電台]]等機構合作。以畫作表現[[生態|生態]]與[[平等主義|平等主義]]概念。

2010年，二犬十一咪把ECO ART進口來香港，同年策劃及創作＜回收作業＞生態藝術展覽。推動香港藝術多樣性，也是香港第一個ECO ART展覽。她現為兩個動物權益節目之電台／影像編輯及主持，推動香港動物權益。並成立FOMC（[[梅窩牛牛之友|梅窩牛牛之友]]），推動地區黃牛保育，也是FOMC主席。

Multimedia artist. seemanho was born and raised in Hong kong, she has been based in London since 2020. Creating varies art forms including installations, paintings, writings, music, theatres, sculptures and videos. 

seemanho introduced the art form  “eco art” to Hong Kong in 2010. Her work “Reclamation exercise Eco Art Exhibition” aimed to promote “art-diversity” in Hong Kong. Her book “They are the eyes of equals ”was published in 2013 which is the first book about animal right and welfare in Hong Kong. Her book “Circle Round the Universe” was published in 2012 which is also a pioneer local reading on animal liberation. 

Her installation exhibition, “A Tree To Be Found” was awarded in the Hong Kong Art Biennial 2003. This work was subsequently purchased and collected by the Hong Kong Museum of Art. Other than in Hong Kong, her works have been exhibited in Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, China, France, Taiwan, Singapore, The UK and The USA, etc.

“Seemanho. Making Clothes .Making Herbal Soup” was awarded Bronze Prize in Book Design in the Hong Kong Designers Association Awards 2005. Her animation work titled “The circus of n_n, v_v”, was invited to participate in the Hong Kong International Film Festival and France Short Film Festival (France). 

She has been invited as residential artist in the USA (2006/2007/ 2014), Hong Kong (2005) and France (2002) for international artist exchange program. 

Other than commissions from commercial companies like Chanel, the United Colors of Benetton, LUSH, MTR, Vita, Avalon Organics, Maxim’s Group and Watson’s Group, seemanho has been invited by organizations such as Oxfam, Green Peace, The Arts with the Disabled Association, Association Concerning Sexual Violence against Women, the Association for the Advancement of Feminism, etc., to create artworks for presenting project concepts. Most of the themes of these works are about natural environment and equality.

Apart from her career as a visual artist and writer, seemanho is also a handpan and tongue drum musician, theatre director and theatre costume designer. In 2017, she composed, performed and curated the music performance “Walking on the lake” (music + video + poem). And since 2017, she has started a series of music performances. 

In 2019, her Mixed media studio《’ backyard 》was set up in Tai Po Arts Centre, hong kong, a venue for Contemporary Art and Performing Art. Her studio is now in Clerkenwell, London.

==裝置藝術作品==
*《有棵沒人種的樹》，屬[[香港藝術雙年展|香港藝術雙年展]]2003年得獎作品，該作品現被[[香港藝術館|香港藝術館]]收藏。
*“Talk With A Vacuum”2007-2008（裝置藝術及表演）美國及香港展出。
*“A work made with the story that is burnt”2006（裝置藝術及表演）美國展出。
*“Press The Button Tour”2005（裝置藝術）。
*“eco art in Hong Kong”2010（裝置藝術）。

==出版品==
畫作和文章常見於報紙及雜誌。出版作品共12本。第一本書於1999年出版。2005年出版作品＜二犬。車花衫。煲藥湯＞，獲HKDA2005亞洲書籍設計銅獎。2009年出版作品《娘足十年》，總結了二犬十一咪對自然與生態的思索。2012出版＜宇宙。氹氹轉＞,它為香港第一部動物權益讀本。

==動漫作品==
《The Circus of n_n, v_v》，被邀請放映於香港國際電影節及法國短片節。

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Reflist}}


==外部連結==
* [https://archive.is/20130505231124/http://www.hkheadline.com/living/living_content.asp?contid=1286&srctype=g 二犬十一咪神奇流動人〔頭條日報〕]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20071110204640/http://studentreporter.mingpao.com/cfm/com_OldContent2.cfm?Category=teenswar&Content_ID=135&Year=6 二犬十一咪領悟自然人生觀〔明報〕]
* [https://www.seemanho.com/ 二犬十一咪網站] {{Wayback|url=https://www.seemanho.com/ |date=20220420192150 }}

{{DEFAULTSORT:H}}
[[Category:香港藝術家|Category:香港藝術家]]
[[Category:中国装置艺术家|Category:中国装置艺术家]]
[[Category:香港理工大學校友|Category:香港理工大學校友]]
[[Category:何姓|S]]