{{chembox
| verifiedrevid = 442151753
|ImageFile=Dimethylsulfoniopropionate Structural Formula V1.svg
|ImageSize=150px
|IUPACName=(Dimethylsulfaniumyl)propanoate
|OtherNames=dimethyl-β-propiothetin
|Section1= {{Chembox Identifiers
|  ChemSpiderID = 22195
|  InChI = 1/C5H10O2S/c1-8(2)4-3-5(6)7/h3-4H2,1-2H3
|  InChIKey = DFPOZTRSOAQFIK-UHFFFAOYAW
|  StdInChI = 1S/C5H10O2S/c1-8(2)4-3-5(6)7/h3-4H2,1-2H3
|  StdInChIKey = DFPOZTRSOAQFIK-UHFFFAOYSA-N
| CASNo_Ref = {{cascite|correct|??}}
| CASNo=7314-30-9
|  PubChem=23736
|  SMILES=C[S+](C)CCC(=O)[O-]
  }}
|Section2= {{Chembox Properties
|  Formula=C<sub>5</sub>H<sub>10</sub>O<sub>2</sub>S
|  MolarMass=134.1967
|  Appearance=white crystalline powder with hygroscopicity and characteristic odor.<ref name="#1">{{cite web |url=http://tianyuchem.en.alibaba.com/product/538880245-213360543/FACTORYSALE_Dimethylpropiothetin_7314_30_9.html |title=存档副本 |accessdate=2013-02-05 |deadurl=yes |archiveurl=https://archive.is/20130306163118/http://tianyuchem.en.alibaba.com/product/538880245-213360543/FACTORYSALE_Dimethylpropiothetin_7314_30_9.html |archivedate=2013-03-06 }}</ref>
|  Density=
|  MeltingPt=120 - 125 °C<ref name="#1"/>
|  BoilingPt=
|  Solubility=
  }}
|Section3= {{Chembox Hazards
|  MainHazards=
|  FlashPt=
|  Autoignition=
  }}
}}
'''二甲基巯基丙酸'''（{{lang-en|Dimethylsulfoniopropionate}}，缩写'''DMSP'''）是一种[[化学式|化学式]]为(CH<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>S<sup>+</sup>CH<sub>2</sub>CH<sub>2</sub>COO<sup>−</sup>的[[有机化合物|有机化合物]]，常以[[两性离子|內盐]]形式存在于海洋[[浮游植物|浮游植物]]、[[海藻|海藻]]以及某些陆生及水生[[维管植物|维管植物]]中。
{{transH}}It functions as an [[osmolyte|osmolyte]] as well as several other physiological and environmental roles have also been identified.<ref>{{Cite journal
| doi = 10.1126/science.1151109
| volume = 319
| issue = 5868
| pages = 1356
| last = DeBose
| first = Jennifer L.
| author2 = Sean C. Lema
| author3 = Gabrielle A. Nevitt
| title = Dimethylsulfoniopropionate as a foraging cue for reef fishes
| journal = Science
| accessdate = 2008-03-21
| date = 2008-03-07
| url = http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/abstract/319/5868/1356
| format = abstract
| pmid = 18323445
| archive-date = 2008-12-02
| archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20081202022954/http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/abstract/319/5868/1356
| dead-url = no
}}{{Cite journal
| doi = 10.1126/science.1131043
| volume = 314
| issue = 5799
| pages = 652–654
| last = Vila-Costa
| first = Maria
| author2 = Rafel Simo
| author3 = Hyakubun Harada
| author4 = Josep M. Gasol
| author5 = Doris Slezak
| author6 = Ronald P. Kiene
| title = Dimethylsulfoniopropionate uptake by marine phytoplankton
| journal = Science
| accessdate = 2008-03-21
| date = 2006-10-27
| url = http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/abstract/314/5799/652
| format = abstract
| pmid = 17068265
| archive-date = 2009-12-11
| archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20091211182151/http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/abstract/314/5799/652
| dead-url = no
}}</ref> DMSP was first identified in the marine red alga ''Polysiphonia fastigiata'' by Frederick Challenger and Margaret Simpson (later Dr. Whitaker) <ref>{{Cite journal
| doi = 10.1039/JR9480001591
| volume = 1948
| pages = 1591-1597
| last = Challenger
| first = Frederick
| author2 = Margaret Isabel Simpson
| title = Studies on biological methylation. Part XII. A precursor of the dimethyl sulphide evolved by Polysiphonia fastigiata. Dimethyl-2-carboxyethylsulphonium hydroxide and its salts.
| journal = Journal of the Chemical Society (London)
| accessdate = 2014-07-14
| date = 2014-07-14
| url = http://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/1948/jr/jr9480001591#!divAbstract
| format = pdf
| pmid = 18101461
| archive-date = 2018-10-03
| archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20181003141502/https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/1948/jr/jr9480001591#!divAbstract
| dead-url = no
}}</ref>
{{transF}}

==生物合成==
{{transH}}
In higher plants, DMSP is biosynthesized from [[S-Methylmethionine|S-Methylmethionine]]. Two intermediates in this conversion are dimethylsulfoniumpropylamine and dimethylsulfoniumpropionaldehyde.<ref>Scott D. McNeil, Michael L. Nuccio, and Andrew D. Hanson "Betaines and Related Osmoprotectants. Targets for Metabolic Engineering of Stress Resistance" Plant Physiology, August 1999, Vol. 120, pp. 945–949. {{DOI|10.1104/pp.120.4.945}}</ref> In algae, however, the biosynthesis starts with removal of the amino group from [[Methionine|Methionine]], rather than from S-Methylmethionine.
{{transF}}

==降解==
{{transH}}
DMSP is broken down by marine microbes to form two major volatile sulfur products, each with distinct effects on the environment. Its major breakdown product is [[methanethiol|methanethiol]] (CH<sub>3</sub>SH), which is assimilated by bacteria into [[protein|protein]] sulfur. Its second volatile breakdown product is [[dimethyl_sulfide|dimethyl sulfide]] (CH<sub>3</sub>SCH<sub>3</sub>; DMS). Most DMS in seawater is cleaved from DMSP by the enzyme DMSP-[[lyase|lyase]], although many non-marine species of bacteria convert methanethiol to DMS.{{Citation needed|date=April 2011}}

DMS is also taken up by marine [[bacteria|bacteria]], but not as rapidly as methanethiol. Although DMS usually consists of less than 25% of the volatile breakdown products of DMSP, the high reactivity of methanethiol makes the steady-state DMS concentrations in seawater approximately 10 times those of methanethiol (~3 [[Mole_(unit)|nM]] vs. ~0.3 nM). Curiously, there have never been any published correlations between the concentrations of DMS and methanethiol.  This is probably due to the non-linear [[abiotic|abiotic]] and microbial uptake of methanethiol in seawater, and the comparatively low reactivity of DMS. However, a significant portion of DMS in seawater is [[redox|oxidized]] to [[dimethyl_sulfoxide|dimethyl sulfoxide]] (DMSO).

Relevant to [[global_climate|global climate]], DMS is thought to play a role in the Earth's heat budget by decreasing the amount of [[solar_radiation|solar radiation]] that reaches the Earth's surface.

DMSP has also been implicated in influencing the taste and odour characteristics of various products. For example, although DMSP is odourless and tasteless, it is accumulated at high levels in some marine [[herbivory|herbivores]] or [[filter_feeder|filter feeder]]s. Increased growth rates, vigour and stress resistance among animals cultivated on such diets have been reported.{{Citation needed|date=April 2011}} DMS, is responsible for repellent, 'off' tastes and odours that develop in some seafood products because of the action of bacterial DMSP-lyase, which cogenerates [[acrylate|acrylate]].
{{transF}}
==参考文献==
<references/>

==外部链接==
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20150214081038/http://saga.pmel.noaa.gov/review/dms_climate.html DMS and Climate]

[[Category:硫醚|Category:硫醚]]
[[Category:羧酸阴离子|Category:羧酸阴离子]]