'''魯道夫斯海姆-芬夫豪斯'''（{{lang-de|Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus}}）是奧地利首都[[維也納|維也納]]的23個行政區之一，位於維也納市中心，[[內城區_(維也納)|內城區]]以西。魯道夫斯海姆-芬夫豪斯面積3.92平方公里，2014年有人口74791人。
==參考資料==
* "Wien - 15. Bezirk / Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus", Wien.gv.at, 2009, webpage (15 subpages): [http://www.wien.gv.at/bezirke/Rudolfsheim-Fuenfhaus/ Wien.gv.at-Rudolfsheim-Fuenfhaus] {{Wayback|url=http://www.wien.gv.at/bezirke/Rudolfsheim-Fuenfhaus/ |date=20210429135018 }} (in German).
* Felix Czeike: ''Wiener Bezirkskulturführer: XV. Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus'' ("Vienna District Cultural Leader: XV. Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus"). Jugend and Volk, Vienna 1980, ISBN 3-7141-6227-5.
* Monika Griebl: ''Wien Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus''. Sutton, Erfurt 2005, ISBN 3-89702-794-1.
* Wilhelm Kainrath: ''Die alltägliche Stadterneuerung: drei Jahrhunderte Bauen und Planen in einem Wiener Außenbezirk'' ("The Everyday Urban Renewal: Three Centuries of Buildings and Plans in a Vienna Outer District"). Löcker, Vienna 1984, ISBN 3-85409-062-5.
* Christine Klusacek, Kurt Stimmer: ''Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus''. Mohl, Vienna 1978, ISBN 3-900272-08-5.
* Carola Leitner (Hg.): ''Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus: Wiens 15. Bezirk in alten Fotografien'' ("Vienna's 15th District in Old Photographs"). Ueberreuter, Vienna 2008, ISBN 978-3-8000-7335-1.
* Helfried Seemann (Hg.): ''Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus: 1860 – 1930''. Album Verlag für Photographie, Vienna 1995, ISBN 3-85164-015-2.
==外部連結==
{{Commonscat|Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus|魯道夫斯海姆-芬夫豪斯}}
* [http://www.wien.gv.at/bezirke/rudolfsheim-fuenfhaus/ Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus] {{Wayback|url=http://www.wien.gv.at/bezirke/rudolfsheim-fuenfhaus/ |date=20210429135018 }} at website [http://www.wien.gv.at/ wien.at] {{Wayback|url=http://www.wien.gv.at/ |date=20000302122230 }} (German).
* [http://www.bezirksmuseum.at/rudolfsheimfuenfhaus/page.asp/index.htm ''Bezirksmuseum Rudolsheim-Fünfhaus''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.bezirksmuseum.at/rudolfsheimfuenfhaus/page.asp/index.htm |date=20090307004553 }} - District museum (German).
* {{aeiou|.r/r939446.htm}}
{{coord|48|12|03|N|16|19|12|E|region:AT-9_type:adm2nd|display=title}}
[[Category:維也納行政區劃|Category:維也納行政區劃]]