{{NoteTA
|G1=Electronics
}}
'''信号完整性'''（{{lang-en|'''Signal integrity, SI'''}}）是对于电子[[信号_(信息论)|信号]]质量的一系列度量标准。在[[数字电路|数字电路]]中，一串二进制的信号流是通过[[电压|电压]]（或[[电流|电流]]）的波形来表示。然而，自然界的信号实际上都是模拟的，而非数字的，所有的信号都受[[噪音|噪音]]、扭曲和损失影响。在短距离、低[[比特率|比特率]]的情况里，一个简单的导体可以忠实地传输信号。而长距离、高比特率的信号如果通过几种不同的导体，多种效应可以降低信号的可信度，这样系统或设备不能正常工作。信号完整性工程是分析和缓解上述负面效应的一项任务，在所有水平的电子封装和组装，例如[[集成电路|集成电路]]的内部连接、集成电路封装、[[印制电路板|印制电路板]]等工艺过程中，都是一项十分重要的活动。

信号完整性考虑的问题主要有[[振铃|振铃]]（{{lang|en|ringing}}）、[[串扰|串扰]]（{{lang|en|crosstalk}}）、[[接地反弹|接地反弹]]、扭曲（{{lang|en|skew}}）、信号损失和[[电源供应|电源供应]]中的噪音。

==相關條目==
*[[眼圖|眼圖]]
*[[電源完整性|電源完整性]]

== 参考文献 ==
*{{cite book
 | isbn = 0-13-084408-X
 | author = Howard Johnson, Martin Graham.
 | year = 2002
 | publisher = Prentice Hall PTR
 | location = Upper Saddle River, New Jersey
 | title = High-speed signal propagation : advanced black magic
}} Advanced-level reference text for experienced digital designers who want to press their designs to the upper limits of speed and distance.
*{{cite book
 |isbn        = 978-0-13-234979-6
 |url         = http://www.bethesignal.net/bogatin/bookreviews.php
 |author      = Eric Bogatin.
 |year        = 2009
 |publisher   = Prentice Hall
 |location    = Upper Saddle River, New Jersey
 |title       = Signal and Power Integrity - Simplified, Second Edition
 |deadurl     = yes
 |archiveurl  = https://web.archive.org/web/20110910103119/http://www.bethesignal.net/bogatin/bookreviews.php
 |archivedate = 2011-09-10
 |access-date = 2011-09-10
}} From the backcover: Draws from author's industrial experience and his work teaching more than five thousand engineers.
*{{cite book
 | isbn = 0471360902
 | author = Stephen H. Hall, Garrett W. Hall, James A. McCall.
 | year = 2000
 | publisher = Wiley
 | location = New York
 | title = High speed digital system design : a handbook of interconnect theory and design practices 
}}
*{{cite book
 | isbn = 0-52-159292-5
 | author = William J. Dally; John W. Poulton.
 | year = 1999
 | publisher = Cambridge Univ. Press
 | location = Cambridge
 | title = Digital systems engineering
}} Textbook on the problems of building digital systems, including signal integrity.
*{{cite book
 | isbn = 0-13-141884-X
 | author = Douglas Brooks.
 | year = 2003
 | publisher = Prentice Hall PTR
 | location = Upper Saddle River, New Jersey
 | title = Signal integrity issues and printed circuit board design
}} This book approaches electrical engineering and signal integrity principles from a basic level, assuming little prior understanding.
*{{cite book
 | isbn = 0-9821-3690-0
 | title = Signal Integrity for PCB Designers
 | author = Vikas Shukla,
 | publisher = Reference Designer
}}
*{{cite book
 | isbn = 0-13-186006-2
 | author = Geoff Lawday, David Ireland, and Greg Edlund.
 | year = 2008
 | publisher = Prentice Hall
 | location = Upper Saddle River, New Jersey
 | title = A signal integrity engineer's companion : real-time test and measurement and design simulation
}}
*{{cite book
 | isbn = 9780136152064
 | author = Madhavan Swaminathan, A. Ege Engin.
 | year = 2008
 | publisher = Prentice Hall
 | location = Upper Saddle River, New Jersey
 | title = Power integrity modeling and design for semiconductors and systems
}} Using realistic case studies and downloadable software examples, two leading experts demonstrate today's best techniques for designing and modeling interconnects to efficiently distribute power and minimize noise. The authors carefully introduce the core concepts of power distribution design, systematically present and compare leading techniques for modeling noise, and link these techniques to specific applications. Their many examples range from the simplest (using analytical equations to compute power supply noise) through complex system-level applications.
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20071216103846/http://www.altera.com/technology/signal/sgl-index.html Altera Signal Integrity Center]
* [http://www.altera.com/literature/wp/wp_sgnlntgry.pdf Basic Principles of Signal Integrity] {{Wayback|url=http://www.altera.com/literature/wp/wp_sgnlntgry.pdf |date=20140913084301 }}
* [http://www.agilent.com/find/signal-integrity Agilent EEsof EDA - Signal Integrity Analysis Resources]
* [http://www.eetimes.com/news/design/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=202601693 "Design tip: Model instruments to improve signal integrity simulation", ''EETimes'', John Olah, 2007-October-25]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20080201212153/http://www.designcon.com/2008/abstracts.html Topics in signal integrity were discussed at DesignCon 2008] February 4, 2008 to February 7, 2008
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20060527185221/http://cp.literature.agilent.com/litweb/pdf/5988-5978EN.pdf "Understanding Signal Integrity - Signal integrity is becoming a more significant problem as clock frequencies increase"] by Eric Bogatin, GigaTest Labs, Agilent Application Note 5988-5978EN, April 2002, 8 pages, PDF, 0.9MB
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20070316173011/http://cp.literature.agilent.com/litweb/pdf/5989-5763EN.pdf "Signal Integrity Analysis Series Part 1: Single-Port TDR, TDR/TDT, and 2-Port TDR"] (Agilent Application Note 5989-5763EN, February 2007, 72 pages, PDF, 5.2MB) 
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20070319173646/http://cp.literature.agilent.com/litweb/pdf/5989-5764EN.pdf "Signal Integrity Analysis Series Part 2: 4-Port TDR/VNA/PLTS"] (Agilent Application Note 5989-5764EN, February 2007, 56 pages, PDF, 3.6MB) 
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20110707093804/http://cp.literature.agilent.com/litweb/pdf/5989-5765EN.pdf "Signal Integrity Analysis Series Part 3: The ABC's of De-Embedding"] (Agilent Application Note 5989-5765EN, July 2007, 48 pages, PDF, 2.5MB)

[[Category:数字电子|S]]