{{Infobox Language
|name=匈人语
|region=来自于[[欧亚大草原|欧亚大草原]]后入[[欧洲|欧洲]]
|extinct=公元453年
|familycolor=unclassified
|family=未明,有可能是蒙语族
|iso3=xhc
}}

'''匈人语'''是历史上[[匈人|匈人]]所使用的[[语言|语言]]。关于该语言的记录非常零散，只有留有少数单词。

== 与其他语言的关系 ==
[[楚瓦什语|楚瓦什语]]有关联。匈人语与其他语言的问题远未解决。 [[Otto_Maenchen-Helfen|Otto Maenchen-Helfen]]的话很好地总结了这一问题:
{{bquote|"All we know of the language of the Huns are names. Our sources do not give the meaning of any of them... Only by a careful study of the literary context in which the names appear can we hope to bring the problem of the Hunnish language closer to its solution. Attempts to force all Hunnic names into one linguistic group are a priori doomed to failure. The number of Hun names which are certainly or most probably Turkish is small. In addition to the objective difficulties, subjective ones bedevil some scholars. [[Turkology|Turkologists]] are likely to find [[Turkish_people|Turks]] everywhere;  convinced that all proto-Bulgarians spoke [[Turkish_language|Turkish]], Németh offered an attractive Turkish etymology of Asparuch; other Turkologists explained the name in a different, perhaps less convincing way. Now it has turned out that Asparuch is an Iranian name... Scholars of profound erudition were sometimes biased by [[Pan-Turkism|Pan-Turkism]]..."}}<ref>Otto J. Maenchen-Helfen. The World of the Huns: Studies in Their History and Culture. University of California Press, 1973</ref><ref>[http://www.kroraina.com/huns/mh/mh_6.html Otto Maenchen-Helfen, Language of Huns]</ref>

== 引用文献 ==
{{reflist}}

== 相关文献 ==
{{refbegin}}
* Clark, Larry. 1998. "Chuvash." In: Johanson & Csató, pp. 434–452.
* Gmyrya, L. 1995. ''Hun country at the Caspian Gate: Caspian Dagestan during the epoch of the Great Movement of Peoples''. Makhachkala: Dagestan Publishing.
* [[Golden,_Peter_B.|Golden, Peter B.]] 1998. "The Turkic peoples: A historical sketch." In: Johanson & Csató, pp. 16–29.
* Heather, Peter. 1995. "The Huns and the End of the Roman Empire in Western Europe." ''English Historical Review'' 110.4–41.
* Johanson, Lars & Éva Agnes Csató (ed.). 1998. ''The Turkic languages''. London: Routledge.
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
* ''The World of the Huns'' by Otto Maenchen-Helfen, University of California Press, 1973. [http://www.kroraina.com/huns/mh Chapter: ''IX. Language'']

{{Turkic languages}}

[[Category:匈人|Category:匈人]]
[[Category:匈牙利文化|Category:匈牙利文化]]
[[Category:突厥語族|Category:突厥語族]]
[[Category:已灭亡语言|Category:已灭亡语言]]