{{Infobox building
|name               = 乔治·华盛顿共济会国家纪念堂
|native_name        = George Washington Masonic National Memorial
|image              = George Washington Masonic National Memorial from King Street Washington Metro station.JPG
|image_size         = 200px
|caption            = 
|location           = 弗吉尼亚州亚历山德里亚 Callahan Drive101号
|latd               = 38.80748
|longd              = -77.06598
|iso_region         = US-VA
|coordinates_display = title
|start_date         = 1922年6月5日<ref name="StartTemple" />
|completion_date    = 1932
|opening            = 1932年5月12日<ref name="SheppersonFete" />
|roof               = {{convert|333|ft|m|abbr=on}}
|floor_count        = 9
|elevator_count     = 2
|cost               = $600万[[美元|美元]]
|architect         = Harvey Wiley Corbett of Helmle & Corbett 
}}

'''乔治·华盛顿共济会国家纪念堂'''（{{lang-en|'''George Washington Masonic National Memorial'''}}）是一座[[共济会|共济会]]建筑，位于[[华盛顿哥伦比亚特区|华盛顿哥伦比亚特区]]郊区，[[弗吉尼亚州|弗吉尼亚州]]的[[亚历山德里亚_(弗吉尼亚州)|亚历山德里亚 (弗吉尼亚州)]]。纪念第一任[[美国总统|美国总统]]、共济会会员[[乔治·华盛顿|乔治·华盛顿]]。塔楼模仿古代[[埃及|埃及]]的[[亚历山大灯塔|亚历山大灯塔]]<ref name="Ferris">Ferris, p. 21.</ref><ref>Kruh and Kruh, p. 41.</ref><ref name="Morris18">Morris, p. 18.</ref>。纪念堂高{{convert|333|ft|m|adj=on}}<ref name="Morris18" /><ref name="Hutton">[http://www.washingtonpost.com/gog/museums/george-washington-masonic-national-memorial,796854/critic-review.html#reviewNum1 Hutton, Margaret. "George Washington Masonic National Memorial." ''Washington Post.'' No date.] Accessed 2011-03-21.</ref><ref name="Conroy">Conroy, Sarah Booth. "Those Revolutionary Masons." ''Washington Post.'' February 16, 1992.</ref>，座落在射手山山顶<ref name="Colbert">Colbert, p. 14.</ref><ref>Smith, p. 79.</ref>， Callahan Drive 101号.<ref name="Ferris" /> 始建于1922年，<ref name="StartTemple">"Start Alexandria Memorial Temple." ''Washington Post.'' June 6, 1922.</ref> 1932年开幕<ref name="SheppersonFete">Shepperson, Charles M. "Masonic Fete Draws 150,000 to Alexandria." ''Washington Post.'' May 12, 1932.</ref>，内部在1970年最终完成<ref name="Seghers">[http://scottishrite.org/journal/january-february-2010/gwmnm-centennial-celebration/ Seghers, George D. "The George Washington Masonic Memorial Centennial Celebration." ''Scottish Rite Journal.'' January-February, 2001.] {{webarchive|url=https://archive.is/20130113051027/http://scottishrite.org/journal/january-february-2010/gwmnm-centennial-celebration/ |date=2013-01-13 }}</ref>。

[[华盛顿地铁|华盛顿地铁]][[華盛頓地鐵藍線|藍線]]和[[華盛頓地鐵黄線|黄線]]的国王街站<ref name="Colbert" />距离此纪念堂四个街块。

== 参考文献 ==
=== 引用 ===
{{Reflist}}

=== 书籍 ===
* ''American Art Annual.'' New York: MacMillan Co., 1933.
* Bahr, Jeff; Taylor, Troy; Coleman, Loren; Scheurman, Mark; and Moran, Mark. ''Weird Virginia.'' New York: Sterling Publishing, 2007.
* Boudreau, Allan; Bleimann, Alexander; and Deutsch, David. ''George Washington in New York.'' New York: American Lodge of Research, 1987.
* Brown, William Mosely. ''George Washington, Freemason.'' Richmond, Va.: Garrett & Massie, 1952.
* Burian, A. Ward. ''George Washington's Legacy of Leadership.'' New York: Morgan James Pub., 2007.
* Burstein, Daniel and De Keijzer, Arne J. ''Secrets of 'The Lost Symbol': The Unauthorized Guide to the Mysteries Behind 'The Da Vinci Code' Sequel.'' New York: Harper, 2010.
* Caemmerer, H. Paul. ''Washington, the National Capital.'' Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1932.
* "Callahan, Charles H." In ''Encyclopedia of Virginia Biography.'' Lyon Gardiner Tyler, ed. New York: Lewis Historical Pub. Co., 1915.
* Clute, Eugene. ''Drafting Room Practice.'' New York: The Pencil Points Press, 1928.
* Colbert, Judy. ''Virginia: Off the Beaten Path.'' Guilford, Conn.: Globe Pequot Press, 2009.
* Connelly, Thomas Lawrence. ''The Marble Man: Robert E. Lee and His Image in American Society.'' Baton Rouge, La.: Louisiana State University Press, 1981.
* Ferris, Gary W. ''Presidential Places: A Guide to the Historic Sites of U.S. Presidents.'' Winston-Salem, N.C.: J.F. Blair, 1999.
* Howlett, D. Roger and Noble, Joseph Veach. ''The Sculpture of Donald De Lue: Gods, Prophets, and Heroes.'' Boston, Mass.: D.R. Godine, 1990.
* Kruh, David and Kruh, Louis. ''Presidential Landmarks.'' New York, N.Y.: Hippocrene Books, 1992.
* Laughlin, Clara E. ''So You're Going South!'' Boston: Little, Brown, 1940.
* Lichtenstein, Gaston. ''George Washington's Lost Birthday.'' Richmond, Va.: William Byrd Press, 1924.
* Morris, Shirley. ''The Pelican Guide to Virginia.'' Gretna, La.: Pelican Pub. Co., 1990.
* Reynolds, Charles Bingham. ''The Standard Guide: Washington, A Handbook for Visitors.'' Washington, D.C.: B.S. Reynolds Co., 1924.
* Rothery, Agnes. ''New Roads in Old Virginia.'' Boston, Mass.: Houghton Mifflin, 1937.
* Smedes, Susan Dabney. ''A Southern Planter: Social Life in the Old South.'' New York: Pott, 1900.
* Smith, James Fairbairn. ''A Panorama of Masonic History: Sesquicentennial of the Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of Michigan, 1826-1976.'' Detroit: Sesquicentennial Commission, Michigan Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, 1976.
* "Smith, William Morgan, M.D." In ''Encyclopedia of Virginia Biography.'' Lyon Gardiner Tyler, ed. New York: Lewis Historical Pub. Co., 1915.
* Stevens, William Oliver. ''Washington, the Cinderella City.'' New York: Dodd, Mead & Co., 1943.
* Stoller, Paul D. ''The Architecture of Harvey Wiley Corbett.'' Madison, Wisc.: University of Wisconsin-Madison Libraries, 1995.
* Tatsch, J. Hugo. ''The Facts About George Washington as a Freemason.'' New York: Macoy Publishing and Masonic Supply Co., 1931.
* Turnbull, Everett R. and Denslow, Ray V. ''A History of Royal Arch Masonry.'' Trenton, Mo.: General Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons, 1956.
* Voges, Nettie Allen. ''Old Alexandria: Where America's Past Is Present.'' McLean, Va.: EPM Publications, 1975.
* Walker, J.T. ''F.L.M., A History of Fredericksburg Lodge No. 4 A. F. & A. M.'' Fredericksburg, Va.: Sheridan Books, 2002.
* Wasserman, James. ''The Secrets of Masonic Washington: A Guidebook to Signs, Symbols, and Ceremonies at the Origin of America's Capital.'' Rochester, Vt.: Destiny Books, 2008.

== 外部链接 ==
{{Commons|George Washington Masonic National Memorial}}

== 参见 ==
* [[共济会|共济会]]
* [[乔治·华盛顿|乔治·华盛顿]]

[[Category:共济会建筑物|Category:共济会建筑物]]
[[Category:弗吉尼亚州建筑物|Category:弗吉尼亚州建筑物]]
[[Category:乔治·华盛顿纪念品和纪念地|Category:乔治·华盛顿纪念品和纪念地]]