{{refimprove|time=2013-12-20T12:13:08+00:00}}
{{noteTA
|G1=地名
}}
{{Infobox Australian Place | type = lga 
| name     = 萊卡特自治市
| state    = 新南威爾斯州
| image    = Leichhardt lga sydney.png
| caption  = 
| pop      = 51,114
| density  = 4600
| area     = 11
| est      = 
| seat     = 萊卡特
| mayor    = Jamie Parker（澳大利亞綠黨）
| region   = [[悉尼|雪梨]]
| logo     = 
| url      = http://www.leichhardt.nsw.gov.au/
| stategov = Balmain
| fedgov   = 雪梨、Grayndler
| near-nw  = [[獵人山自治市|獵人山]]
| near-n   = 
| near-ne  = 
| near-e   = [[雪梨市|雪梨]]
| near-w   = [[加拿大灣市|加拿大灣]]
| near-sw  = [[艾士菲自治市|艾士菲]]
| near-s   = [[馬利維議會|馬利維]]
| near-se  = [[雪梨市|雪梨]]
}}
'''萊卡特自治市'''（{{lang-en|Municipality of Leichhardt}}）是[[澳大利亞|澳大利亞]][[悉尼|雪梨]]大都會內的一個[[地方政府區域|地方政府]]。

==沿革==
萊卡特自治市的所在地，傳統上屬於[[澳大利亞原住民|澳大利亞原住民]]－Eora族中的Gadigal部落和Wangal部落；是雪梨比較早開發的地區之一，擁有[[雪梨港|傑克森港]]中悠久的文化遺產。

「萊卡特」之名起源於一位[[普魯士|普魯士]]探險者－{{tsl|en|Ludwig Leichhardt|}}，他在1840年代自[[達爾文_(澳大利亞)|達爾文]]途經[[昆士蘭州|昆士蘭州]]南部而探訪至當地。1871年，州政府於當地設置萊卡特自治市；1949年，與Annandale、Balmain合併；1967年，與Glebe和部份的Camperdown合併。2003年，轄區再次變動，市內的Glebe和Forest Lodge被併入[[雪梨市|雪梨市]]。自1950年代起，萊卡特市成為雪梨地區義大利裔人的社區中心；1970年代中期起，萊卡特市成為[[女同性戀|女同性戀]]者重要的聚集地而得名「Dyke-heart」。

== 議會 ==
萊卡特自治市議會有議席12座，分由4個選區，各選出3位議員，市長非直選。<ref name=EC>{{cite web|url = http://www.lg.elections.nsw.gov.au/LGE2008/result.Leichhardt.html|title = Leichhardt Municipal Council|work = 2008 Election results|publisher = Electoral Commission NSW|accessdate = 2009-08-02}}{{Dead link|date=2019年11月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}</ref> 

<!--
== 人文 ==
The following statistics were provided by the [http://www.abs.gov.au Australian Bureau Statistics] <ref>{{cite web
  | publisher = [[Australian_Bureau_of_Statistics|Australian Bureau of Statistics]] 
  | title=Regional Population Growth, Australia, 2005-06 (catalogue no.: 3218.0)
  | url = http://abs.gov.au
| accessdate = 2007-03-12 }}</ref> website.The population was 51,660 at 30 June 2006, the 55th largest Local Government Area in New South Wales.  It was equal to 0.8% of the New South Wales population of 6,827,694.

There was an increase of 307 people over the year to 30 June 2006, the 55th largest population growth in a Local Government Area in New South Wales.  It was equal to 0.5% of the 58,753 increase in the population of New South Wales.In percentage terms, there was an increase of 0.6% in the number of people over the year to 30 June 2006, the 88th fastest growth in population of a Local Government Area in New South Wales.  In New South Wales the population grew by 0.9%

There was an increase in population over the 10 years to 30 June 2006 of 4,178 people or 8.8% (0.8% in annual average terms), the 46th highest rate of a Local Government Area in New South Wales.  In New South Wales the population grew by 622,966 or 10% (1.0% in annual average terms) over the same period.

The population has a high average income and a high proportion of professionals and managers. Almost 90% of dwellings have one car or more. Over 50% of residents travel to work by car and 25% travel by bus. Compared with the rest of Sydney, they are high users of buses and low users of cars for travelling to work.

Leichhardt residents as a whole do not significantly move in and out of the area any more than residents from other councils. However, the 25-39 age group is significantly more mobile, with more than 50% moving in and out of the area over a five year period. The NSW State Government projects a low growth rate with a population of 54,800 by 2031. The population profile may gain a stronger balance of young and older people if more of the 25-39 family age group have children and stay in the area. Less rental accommodation, more owner purchasers, high enrolments in childcare and schools, and new higher [[birth_rates|birth rates]] already signal a trend to a more balanced profile.-->

==參考文獻==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部連結 ==
* [[地理坐标|地理坐标]]：{{coord|33|53|S|151|09|E|display=inline,title|region:AU_type:adm2nd_source:dewiki}}
* [http://www.leichhardt.nsw.gov.au/ 萊卡特自治市政府官方網站] {{Wayback|url=http://www.leichhardt.nsw.gov.au/ |date=20100128065104 }}
* [http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@census.nsf/Lookup2001Census/770AEC9D8703A6CECA256BBE008372D1 2001年人口調查] {{Wayback|url=http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@census.nsf/Lookup2001Census/770AEC9D8703A6CECA256BBE008372D1 |date=20110524181533 }}

{{-}}
{{Sydney regions}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Municipality of Leichhardt}}
[[Category:新南威尔士州地方政府区域|Leichhardt]]
[[Category:1871年澳大利亞建立|Category:1871年澳大利亞建立]]
[[Category:2016年澳大利亞廢除|Category:2016年澳大利亞廢除]]