{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Aglaomorpha
| authority = Schott
| Synonyms = 
* ''Christiopteris'' <small>Copel.</small>
* ''Drynaria'' <small>J.Sm.</small>
* ''Dryostachyum'' <small>J.Sm.</small>
* ''Merinthosorus'' <small>Copel.</small>
* ''Photinopteris'' <small>J.Sm.</small>
* ''Pseudodrynaria'' <small>C.Chr.</small>
* ''Thayeria'' <small>Copel.</small> 
}}

'''连珠蕨属'''（[[学名|学名]]：''Aglaomorpha''），是[[水龙骨科|水龙骨科]]下的一个属。

==下属物种==

* ''Aglaomorpha baronii'' (Diels) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha bonii'' (Christ) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha brooksii'' Copel.
* ''Aglaomorpha cornucopia'' (Copel.) M. C. Roos
* [[崖薑蕨|崖薑蕨]] ''Aglaomorpha coronans'' (Wall. ex Mett.) Copel. [[崖薑|崖薑]]
* ''Aglaomorpha delavayi'' (Christ) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha descensa'' (Copel.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha drynarioides'' (Hook.) M. C. Roos
* ''Aglaomorpha fortunei'' (Kunze ex Mett.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha heraclea'' (Kunze) Copel.
* ''Aglaomorpha hieronymi'' (Brause) Copel.
* ''Aglaomorpha involuta'' (Alderw.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha latipinna'' (C. Chr.) M. C. Roos
* ''Aglaomorpha laurentii'' (Christ ex De Wild. & Durand) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha meeboldii'' (Rosenst.) comb. ined.
* [[连珠蕨|连珠蕨]] ''Aglaomorpha meyeniana Schott
* ''Aglaomorpha mollis'' (Bedd.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha nectarifera'' (Becc. ex Baker) M. C. Roos
* ''Aglaomorpha novoguineensis'' (Brause) C. Chr.
* ''Aglaomorpha parishii'' (Bedd.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha parkinsonii'' (Baker) Parris & M. C. Roos
* ''Aglaomorpha pilosa'' (J. Sm. ex Kunze) Copel.
* ''Aglaomorpha pleuridioides'' (Mett.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha propinqua'' (Wall. ex Mett.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha quercifolia'' (L.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha rigidula'' (Sw.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha sagitta'' (Christ) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha sparsisora'' (Desv.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha speciosa'' (Blume) M. C. Roos
* ''Aglaomorpha splendens'' (J. Sm.) Copel.
* ''Aglaomorpha tricuspis'' (Hook.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha volkensii'' (Hieron.) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha willdenowii'' (Bory) Hovenkamp & S. Linds.
* ''Aglaomorpha × dumicola'' (Bostock) comb. ined.

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_连珠蕨属|*]]
[[Category:_水龙骨科|L]]