'''威尔士基督教大复兴'''特指发生在20世纪初，[[威爾士|威尔斯]]历史上规模最大的一次基督教信仰复兴运动，由一個沒有多少文化的26歲的青年礦工[[伊凡·羅伯斯|伊凡·羅伯斯]]所帶動。

== 背景 ==

在英国威尔斯地区，在这次大复兴之前的上一次复兴发生在1859年，但是<!-- prior to that change was afoot in its [[基督教|基督教]]。From 1850年 onwards the 威尔斯的基督教was markedly less [[Calvinistic|Calvinistic]] in form. --> 一代强有力的圣经教师，例如Christmas Evans(1838),John Elias(1841)、Henry Rees(1869)先后去世。 

在19世纪，有2位思想家非常突出：政治哲学家[[卡尔·马克思|卡尔·马克思]]在1848年发表了《[[共产党宣言|共产党宣言]]》，在1869年发表了《[[资本论|资本论]]》；科学家[[查尔斯·达尔文|查尔斯·达尔文]]在1859年发表了《[[物种起源|物种起源]]》。这两种思想都对威尔斯的基督教提出了挑战。<!-- the face of hardship the poor quarrymen of North Wales wanted hope and so many modified their preaching style to that of [[社会福音|社会福音]]; likewise Christian leaders came to 接受达尔文理论despite the fact that some perceived them as being in conflict with the teachings of the Bible. --> 

<!-- Between 1859 and 1904, there were local revivals: in [[Cwmafan|Cwmafan]] (1866), [[Rhondda|Rhondda]] (1879), [[Carmarthen|Carmarthen]] and [[Blaenau_Ffestiniog|Blaenau Ffestiniog]] (1887), [[Dowlais|Dowlais]] (1890) and [[Pontnewydd|Pontnewydd]] (1892). -->
== 开始 ==

<!-- 由于这次复兴的性质 as a spontaneous 社会运动 it is hard to identify an origin for the movement but several locations can be viewed as major components of the revival. -->

<!-- === Ceinewydd (New Quay) and Blaenannerch ===

A prominent leader of the Revival was the [[Methodist|Methodist]] preacher of [[Ceinewydd|Ceinewydd]] [[Joseph_Jenkins|Joseph Jenkins]], who, in 1903, arranged a conference in Ceinewydd under the theme ‘to deepen our loyalty to Christ.’ After a meeting in February of 1904, the regular Sunday meetings as well as the newly founded mid-week meetings became lively and Joseph Jenkins’ Church went to other surrounding Towns and Villages to witness. 

In September a conference was held in [[Blaenannerch|Blaenannerch]]. It was reported that 'massive blessing' was upon this conference and the news quickly spread thought the area and beyond.[[South_Wales_Daily_News|South Wales Daily News]] picked up on the events and reported that 'the third great revival was afoot through the nation!' — 另外两次复兴是[[Welsh_Methodist_revival|Welsh Methodist revival]]和[[1859_Revival|1859 Revival]]. --> 

<!-- === Ammanford === 

At the beginning of November 1904 Jenkins was invited as guest preacher at meetings in [http://www.terrynorm.ic24.net/bethany%20chapel.htm/ Bethany] [[Ammanford|Ammanford]], the Church of [[Nantlais_Williams|Nantlais Williams]].  When it was arranged that Joseph Jenkins was to be guest preacher there was no news of the conversions in Ceinewydd and Blaenannerch, but an extra meeting was hastily arranged on the Sunday afternoon so that Joseph Jenkins could tell the about the events in Ceinewydd and Blaenannerch. Nantlais Williams is recorded to have said that he was worried that there would be no interest in such a meeting and he was sceptical what the turn out would be; when he himself arrived he could only just squeeze in to the Chapel to hear Joseph Jenkins.

It had been arranged before Ceinewydd and Blaenannerch that Joseph Jenkins was to preach on the Monday night before his return to Ceinewydd. The Church was again full with people professing their faith in Jesus; but perhaps the most dramatic turn was when one of the crowd announced ''“Another meeting like this will be held here tomorrow night...”'', and so that meeting again was well attended and went on until the early hours of the morning. Despite already having been ordained as a Minister it is worth noting that upon that weekend in November 1904 Nantlais Williams had a conversion experience, on the Saturday night prior to Joseph Jenkins’ arrival. -->

=== 北威尔斯 === 
[[伊凡·羅伯斯|伊凡·羅伯斯]]（Evan Roberts，1878年6月8日－1951年9月29日）只是一個沒有多少文化的26歲的青年礦工；但是他帶進教會有史以來直到今天，空前的威爾斯大復興。在威爾斯大復興中，一年之內共有十萬人悔改得救，各階層中都有人信主,包括賭徒,賽兔者,都來到基督面前。[[1909年|1909年]]時，某城已經沒有人获得[[救赎|救赎]]，因為這裡的人全都得救了。

*大復興的影響深入整個社會：社會[[道德|道德]]大大的改進，人們的的生活大大地改變。
*[[酒吧|酒吧]]和戲院一家一家地都倒閉了，[[釀酒業|釀酒業]]遭到重大的損失；
*積欠的很久的債務都償清了；
*偷來的東西都送歸原主；
*火車上,電車上,礦場里，到處都有[[禱告|禱告]]聚會；
*馬夫不再用「三字經」來罵馬，以致馬竟不懂得他們用新言語所發的口令。
*青年人退還獎章和文憑,因為他是用不義的方法來得到的；
*社會治安變好，很多地方的法官無案可審，[[律師|律師]]也失業了，便組詩班去各地獻詩；
*國會議員脫離無聊的政治議題，省下的時間便去參加禱告會；
*報紙沒有暴行和[[八卦|八卦]]新聞可報導，改為報導各地復興的消息；
*店裡所存的聖經都買盡了；
*工人的工作產量,比數年中之產量更多；
*政治的集會和球賽只能延期,因為議員和球員都參加這復興大會。

=== 报纸的角色 ===

这次复兴与以往历次复兴的一个不同之处，是媒体扮演了重要角色。<!-- [[Western_Mail|Western Mail]] and the [[South_Wales_Daily_News|South Wales Daily News]], Wales’ daily newspapers spread news of conversions and generated an air of excitement about the Revival that helped to fuel it further.  The Western Mail in particular gave extensive coverage to Evan Roberts’ meetings in Casllwchwr. The Western Mail articles were reprinted in book form in 2004 by Quinta Press. -->

== 影响 ==

据信在威尔斯大复兴期间，至少有10万人成为基督徒。但是这并没能阻止基督教在威尔斯逐渐衰落的趋势，<!-- It has been argued by christian historians that the 1904–1905 revival lacked the depth of previous revivals in terms of nurturing the newly converted Christians in [[Bible_doctrine|Bible doctrine]]. -->   

== 百年纪念==
=== 复兴日记 ===
2004年，在威尔斯大复兴100年之后，<!-- saw Kevin Adams of Llanelli launch a Video/DVD 《复兴日记》 on the 1904 revival. Educated through the medium of Welsh and English, Kevin is a fluent Welsh speaker and writer. He was theologically trained at Bangor University where he gained a BD in Theology and then went on to research the 1904 revival and 20世纪evangelism in Wales. The DVD is available form the website of [http://www.1904revival.com/ 1904revival.com] -->

=== 音乐剧《奇异恩典》 ===
2005年，一部关于威尔斯大复兴的音乐剧[http://www.amazinggracethemusical.com 《奇异恩典》]{{Wayback|url=http://www.amazinggracethemusical.com/ |date=20080614041820 }}上演。音乐和歌词由Mal Pope创作，书由Frank Vickery写作，该剧在威尔斯斯旺西的大剧院首演，导演是威尔斯剧团的Michael Bogdanov。<!-- The first tour included an appearance from [[Peter_Karrie|Peter Karrie]]. -->

== 书籍 ==
* ''War on The Saints'', [[伊凡·罗伯斯|伊凡·罗伯斯]] & [[宾路易师母|宾路易师母]] [[Diggory_Press|Diggory Press]], ISBN 190536301X
* ''The Awakening in Wales & Some of the Hidden Springs'' (republished as ''Fuel for Revival''), Diggory Press, ISBN 184685542X

== 资料 ==

*Evans, Eifion: “Diwygiad 04-05” : 2002
*Gibbard, Noel: “Nefol Dan – Agweddau ar ddiwygiad 1904-1905” : 2004
*Davies, Gwyn: “Golau Gwlad – Cristnogaeth yng Nghymru 200-2000” : 2002
*"Awstin" and other special correspondents of the Western Mail: “The Religious Revival in Wales" 2004
*J Vyrnwy Morgan: “The Welsh Religious Revival 1904-05: A Restrospect and Critique” : 2004

=== 參考文獻 ===

{{reflist}}

===外部链接===
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20080611231548/http://www.dustandashes.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=category&sectionid=8&id=36&Itemid=53%2F The Complete Text of The Story of the Welsh Revival by Eyewitnesses, including G Campbell Morgan, E W Moore & Others]
*[http://www.welshrevival.com/lang-en/1904history.htm Welsh Revival - History] {{Wayback|url=http://www.welshrevival.com/lang-en/1904history.htm |date=20190812150330 }}
*[http://www.bbc.co.uk/wales/religion/sites/timeline/pages/religion_in_wales_13.shtml Welsh Revival - BBC - History] {{Wayback|url=http://www.bbc.co.uk/wales/religion/sites/timeline/pages/religion_in_wales_13.shtml |date=20121127125258 }}
*[http://welshrevival.org/ The Welsh Revival Library] {{Wayback|url=http://welshrevival.org/ |date=20201124012013 }}

[[Category:基督教历史|Category:基督教历史]]
[[Category:20世纪威尔士|Category:20世纪威尔士]]