{{Infobox NRHP
| name =威斯康辛州議會大廈
| nrhp_type =nhl
| image = Wis-capitol.jpg
| image_size = 350px
| caption =
| location= [[美國|美國]][[威斯康辛州|威斯康辛州]]首府[[麥迪遜|麥迪遜]]
| coordinates = {{coord|43|04|29|N|89|23|03|W|display=inline,title}}
| locmapin = 
| area =
| built =1906-1917
| architect= [[George_B._Post|George B. Post]]
| architecture= [[布杂艺术|Beaux-Arts]]
| designated_nrhp_type=January 3, 2001<ref name="nhlsum">{{cite web|url=http://tps.cr.nps.gov/nhl/detail.cfm?ResourceId=1063384856&ResourceType=Building|title=Wisconsin State Capitol|accessdate=2008-06-30|work=National Historic Landmark summary listing|publisher=National Park Service|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20090403222337/http://tps.cr.nps.gov/nhl/detail.cfm?ResourceId=1063384856&ResourceType=Building|archive-date=2009-04-03|dead-url=no}}</ref>
| added = October 15, 1970
| refnum=70000031 <ref name="nris">{{NRISref|2006a}}</ref>
}}

'''威斯康辛州議會大廈'''（{{lang-en|Wisconsin State Capitol}}）是位於[[美國|美國]][[威斯康辛州|威斯康辛州]]首府[[麥迪遜|麥迪遜]]的一座建築，除了[[威斯康辛州議會|威斯康辛州議會]]之外，威斯康辛州長辦公室和威斯康辛州最高法院也位於這裡。大廈高284.5英尺（約86.7米），僅比華盛頓的[[美國國會大廈|美國國會大廈]]低3英尺，是麥迪遜最高的建築。

==參考文獻==
{{reflist|2}}

==參考資料==
* Dennis, James M. ''Karl Bitter Architectural Sculptor: 1867 - 1915''. University of Wisconsin Press. 1967年.
* Kvaran, Einar Einarsson. ''Architectural Sculpture in America''. unpublished manuscript.
* Landau, Sarah Bradford. ''George B. Post: Picturesque Designer and Determined Realist''. New York: The Montacelli Press. 1998年.
* Lombardo, Josef Vincent. ''Atilio Piccirilli: Life of an American Sculptor''. New York: Pitman Publishing Corporation. 1944年.
* Rajer, Anton and Christine Style. ''Public Sculpture in Wisconsin: An Atlas of Outdoor Monuments, Memorials and Masterpieces in the Badger State''. Madison Wisconsin: SOS! Save Outdoor Sculpture, Wisconsin. 1999年.
* Schevill, Ferdinand. ''Karl Bitter – A Biography''. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. 1917年.
*''Wisconsin State Capitol: Guide and History''. Division of Buildings and Grounds, Department of Administration, State of Wisconsin. 1991年.

==外部連結==
{{Commonscat|Wisconsin State Capitol}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20131007154526/http://www.wisconsin.gov/state/capfacts/tour_select.html Information on the State Capitol] 
* [http://digital.library.wisc.edu/1711.dl/WI.WICapitol Wisconsin State Capitol Historic Structure Report (1995-2005)] {{Wayback|url=http://digital.library.wisc.edu/1711.dl/WI.WICapitol |date=20081201143303 }}
{{US State Capitols}}
[[Category:美國各州議會大廈|Category:美國各州議會大廈]]
[[Category:威斯康辛州建築物|Category:威斯康辛州建築物]]