{{Infobox Language
|name=古隆语
|nativename=
|familycolor=Sino-Tibetan
|states=[[尼泊尔|尼泊尔]]、[[印度|印度]]
|region=[[南亞|南亞]]
|ethnicity=[[古隆族|古隆族]]
|speakers={{sigfig|359000|2}}<!--when updating, verify that the figures for East and West Gurung have been merged along with their ISO codes-->
|date=2007年
|ref=e18
|nation=  [[尼泊尔|尼泊尔]] [[缅甸|缅甸]] [[印度|印度]] [[中华人民共和国|中國]]
|fam1=[[汉藏语系|汉藏语系]]
|fam2=[[藏緬語族|藏緬語族]]
|fam3=[[藏-喜马拉雅语群|藏-喜马拉雅语群]]
|fam4=[[达芒语支|达芒语支]]
|iso2=sit
|lc1=ggn|ld1=东古隆语|ll1=none
|lc2=gvr|ld2=西古隆语|ll2=none
}}

'''古隆语'''是[[古隆族|古隆族]]的语言，属于[[藏缅语族|藏缅语族]][[达芒语支|达芒语支]]，有43万人使用，主要分布在[[尼泊尔|尼泊尔]]北部。

可以分为两种语言：
* 东古隆语，23万人使用；
* 西古隆语，20万人使用。

==註釋==
{{reflist}}

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
* J. Burton-Page. (1955). Two studies in Gurungkura: I. tone; II. Rhotacization and retroflexion. ''Bulletin of the Society of Oriental and African Studies'' 111-19.
* Viktor S.Doherty. (1974). "The Organizing Principles of Gurung Kinship." [http://himalaya.socanth.cam.ac.uk/collections/journals/kailash/pdf/kailash_02_04_02.pdf ''Kailash'']. 2.4: 273-301.
* Warren W. Glover. (1970). Gurung tone and higher levels. Occasional Papers of the Wolfenden society on Tibeto-Burman Linguistics III, Tone systems of Tibeto-Burman languages of Nepal, Pt. I, ed. by Austin Hale and Kenneth L. Pike, 52-73. Studies in tone and phonological segments. Urbana: University of Illinois.
* Warren W. Glover. (1974). Sememic and Grammatical Structures in Gurung (Nepal). Publication No. 49. Norman, OK: SIL Publications.    
* Warren W. Glover and Jessie Glover. (1972). A Guide to Gurung Tone. Kathmandu: Tribhuvan University and Summer Institute of Linguistics.
* Warren W. Glover and John K. Landon. (1980). "Gurung Dialects." In Papers in Southeast Asian Languages No. 7, edited by R.L. Trail et al., 9-77. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
* Kristine A. Hildebrandt, D.N. Dhakal, Oliver Bond, Matt Vallejo and Andrea Fyffe. (2015). “A sociolinguistic survey of the languages of Manang, Nepal: Co-existence and endangerment.” ''[https://web.archive.org/web/20160616212827/http://www.nfdin.gov.np/securi/ NFDIN Journal,]'' 14.6: 104-122.
* Pettigrew, Judith. (1999). "Parallel Landscapes: Ritual and Political Values of a Shamanic Soul Journey" in Himalayan Space: Cultural Horizons and Practices, edited by Balthasar Bickel and Martin Gaenszle, 247-271. Zürich: Völkerkundsmuseum
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
{{Incubator|code= gvr}}

{{不丹语言}}
{{Bodic languages}}
{{Languages of Northeast India}}
{{Languages of Nepal}}

[[Category:藏缅语族|Category:藏缅语族]]