'''别名'''是指[[内存|内存]]中的一个数据位置可以通过程序的多个符号名来访问。因此通过一个名字修改数据意味着所有别名关联的值也改变了。别名使理解、分析、优化程序变得困难。{{tsl|en|Alias analysis|别名分析}}用于分析处理程序中的别名的信息。 

{{transH}}
== 例子==

=== 缓冲区溢出 ===
For example, most implementations of the [[C_(programming_language)|C programming language]] do not perform [[Index_checking|array bounds checking]]. One can then exploit the implementation of the programming language by the compiler and the computer architecture's [[assembly_language|assembly language]] conventions, to achieve aliasing effects by writing outside of the array (a type of [[buffer_overflow|buffer overflow]]). This invokes [[undefined_behaviour|undefined behaviour]] according to the C language specification; however many implementations of C will show the aliasing effects described here.

If an array is created on the [[call_stack|stack]], with a variable laid out in memory directly beside that [[Array_data_structure|array]], one could index outside the array and directly change the variable by changing the relevant array element. For example, if we have an <tt>int</tt> array of size 2 (for this example's sake, calling it <tt>arr</tt>), next to another <tt>int</tt> variable (call it <tt>i</tt>), <tt>arr[2]</tt> (i.e. the 3rd element) would be aliased to <tt>i</tt> if they are adjacent in memory.
<syntaxhighlight lang="c">
# include <stdio.h>

int main()
{
 int arr[2] = { 1, 2 };
 int i=10;

 /* Write beyond the end of arr. Undefined behaviour in standard C, will write to i in some implementations. */
 arr[2] = 20;

 printf("element 0: %d \t", arr[0]); // outputs 1
 printf("element 1: %d \t", arr[1]); // outputs 2
 printf("element 2: %d \t", arr[2]); // outputs 20, if aliasing occurred
 printf("i: %d \t\t", i); // might also output 20, not 10, because of aliasing, but the compiler might have i stored in a register and print 10
 /* arr size is still 2. */
 printf("arr size: %d \n", (sizeof(arr) / sizeof(int)));
}
</syntaxhighlight>
This is possible in some implementations of C because an array is a block of contiguous memory, and array elements are merely referenced by offsets off the address of the beginning of that block multiplied by the size of a single element. Since C has no bounds checking, indexing and addressing outside of the array is possible. Note that the aforementioned aliasing behaviour is [[Undefined_behavior|undefined behaviour]]. Some implementations may leave space between arrays and variables on the stack, for instance, to align variables to memory locations that are a multiple of the architecture's native [[word_size|word size]]. The C standard does not generally specify how data is to be laid out in memory. (ISO/IEC 9899:1999, section 6.2.6.1).

It is not erroneous for a compiler to omit aliasing effects for accesses that fall outside the bounds of an array.

=== 别名指针 ===
{{See also|Pointer aliasing}}
Another variety of aliasing can occur in any language that can refer to one location in memory with more than one name (for example, with [[pointer_(computer_programming)|pointers]]). See the C  [[Xor_swap_algorithm#Code_example|example]] of the xor swap algorithm that is a function; it assumes the two pointers passed to it are distinct, but if they are in fact equal (or aliases of each other), the function fails. This is a common problem with functions that accept pointer arguments, and their tolerance (or the lack thereof) for aliasing must be carefully documented, particularly for functions that perform complex manipulations on memory areas passed to them.

== Specified aliasing ==
Controlled aliasing behaviour may be desirable in some cases (that is, aliasing behaviour that is specified, unlike that enabled by memory layout in C). It is common practice in [[Fortran|Fortran]]. The [[Perl|Perl]] [[programming_language|programming language]] specifies, in some constructs, aliasing behaviour, such as in <tt>foreach</tt> loops. This allows certain data structures to be modified directly with less code. For example,

<syntaxhighlight lang="perl">
my @array = (1, 2, 3);

foreach my $element (@array) {
   # Increment $element, thus automatically
   # modifying @array, since $element is ''aliased''
   # to each of @array's elements in turn.
   $element++;
}

 print "@array \n";
</syntaxhighlight>
will print out "2 3 4" as a result. If one wanted to bypass aliasing effects, one could copy the contents of the index variable into another and change the copy.
{{transF}}
== 优化时冲突 ==
{{tsl|en|Optimizing compiler|优化编译器}}在存在指针时往往对变量做出保守假设。如[[常量传播|常量传播]]能否使用。代码重排序（code reordering）也受别名的影响，这可能会改善{{tsl|en|instruction scheduling|指令调度}}或允许更多的{{tsl|en|loop optimization|循环优化}}.

[[C语言|C语言]]的[[C99|C99]]标准，提出了'''严格别名'''规则（strict aliasing rule）见section 6.5, paragraph 7。指出使用不同类型的指针访问同一内存位置是违规的。编译器因而可以假定不同类型的指针不会是别名，这可能带来性能的巨大提升。<ref>{{cite web | url=http://cellperformance.beyond3d.com/articles/2006/06/understanding-strict-aliasing.html |author=Mike Acton |date=2006-06-01 |title=Understanding Strict Aliasing}}</ref>一些著名项目，如[[Python_2|Python 2]]违反了此规则。<ref>{{cite web | url=http://mail.python.org/pipermail/python-dev/2003-July/036898.html |author=Neil Schemenauer |date=2003-07-17 |title=ANSI strict aliasing and Python}}</ref>[[Linux内核|Linux内核]]也解决了类似问题。<ref>{{cite web | url=https://lkml.org/lkml/2003/2/26/158 |author=Linus Torvalds |date=2003-02-26 |title=Re: Invalid compilation without -fno-strict-aliasing}}</ref> 使用[[gcc|gcc]]编译选项<code>-fno-strict-aliasing</code>可关闭此规则。 

[[C++11|C++11]]规定下述[[广义左值|广义左值]]类型为严格别名规则的例外情形：
*对象的动态类型
*cv量化版本
*signed或unsigned版本
*聚合类型（如struct、class）或union类型，包含此前所指的类型作为它的元素，或非静态数据成员（包括递归嵌套类型）
*动态类型的基类型
*char或unsigned
{{transH}}

== 硬件别名 ==
The term ''aliasing'' is also used to describe the situation where, due to either a hardware design choice or a hardware failure, one or more of the available address bits is not used in the memory selection process.<ref>{{cite web | url=http://www.esacademy.com/en/library/technical-articles-and-documents/miscellaneous/software-based-memory-testing.html |author=Michael Barr |date=2012-07-27 |title=Software Based Memory Testing}}</ref> This may be a design decision if there are more address bits available than are necessary to support the installed memory device(s). In a failure, one or more address bits may be shorted together, or may be forced to [[Ground_(electricity)|ground]] (logic 0) or the supply voltage (logic 1).

;Example
For this example, we assume a memory design with 8 locations, requiring only 3 address lines (or [[bit|bit]]s) since 2<sup>3</sup> = 8).  Address bits (named A2 through A0) are decoded to select unique memory locations as follows, in standard [[Counter_(digital)|binary counter]] fashion:

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|-
! A2 !! A1 !! A0 !! Memory location
|-
| 0 || 0 || 0 || 0
|-
| 0 || 0 || 1 || 1
|-
| 0 || 1 || 0 || 2
|-
| 0 || 1 || 1 || 3
|-
| 1 || 0 || 0 || 4
|-
| 1 || 0 || 1 || 5
|-
| 1 || 1 || 0 || 6
|-
| 1 || 1 || 1 || 7
|-
|}
In the table above, each of the 8 unique combinations of address bits selects a different memory location. However, if one address bit (say A2) were to be shorted to ground, the table would be modified as follows:

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|-
! A2 !! A1 !! A0 !! Memory location
|-
| 0 || 0 || 0 || 0
|-
| 0 || 0 || 1 || 1
|-
| 0 || 1 || 0 || 2
|-
| 0 || 1 || 1 || 3
|-
| <span style="color:red">'''0'''</span> || 0 || 0 || <span style="color:red">'''0'''</span>
|-
| <span style="color:red">'''0'''</span> || 0 || 1 || <span style="color:red">'''1'''</span>
|-
| <span style="color:red">'''0'''</span> || 1 || 0 || <span style="color:red">'''2'''</span>
|-
| <span style="color:red">'''0'''</span> || 1 || 1 || <span style="color:red">'''3'''</span>
|-
|}

In this case, with A2 always being zero, the first four memory locations are duplicated and appear again as the second four.  Memory locations 4 through 7 have become inaccessible.

If this change occurred to a different address bit, the decoding results would be different, but in general the effect would be the same: the loss of a single address bit cuts the available memory space in half, with resulting duplication (aliasing) of the remaining space.
{{transF}}
== 参见 ==
* [[别名|别名]]
* {{tsl|en|Pointer alias|指针别名}}

== 参考文献 ==
{{reflist}}

== 外部链接 ==
* [http://cellperformance.beyond3d.com/articles/2006/06/understanding-strict-aliasing.html Understanding Strict Aliasing] – article by Mike Acton
* [http://mail-index.netbsd.org/tech-kern/2003/08/11/0001.html Aliasing, pointer casts and gcc 3.3] – informational article on NetBSD mailing list
* [http://www.ddj.com/cpp/184404273;jsessionid=NV5BWY3EOHMFSQSNDLPCKH0CJUNN2JVN?_requestid=510121 Type-based alias analysis in C++] – Informational article on type-based alias analysis in C++
* [http://dbp-consulting.com/tutorials/StrictAliasing.html Understand C/C++ Strict Aliasing] – article on strict aliasing originally from the boost developer's wiki

[[Category:编译原理|Category:编译原理]]
[[Category:程序分析|Category:程序分析]]