{{NoteTA
| G1 = Unit
| 1=zh-hans:纳米; zh-hant:納米; zh-tw:奈米
}}
{{About||等於國際單位位制1,852公尺的長度單位|海浬}}

'''納米'''，-{zh-hans:又称'''奈米'''; zh-hant:又稱'''奈米'''; zh-tw:又稱'''納米'''}-，為[[微米|微米]]的千分之一倍（符號 {{lang|la|'''nm'''}}，{{lang-en-gb|nanometre}}、{{lang-en-us|nanometer}}，字首 {{lang|la|nano}} 在[[希腊语|希臘文]]中的原意是「[[侏儒症|侏儒]]」的意思），是一个長度單位，指1[[米_(单位)|米]]的十億分之一（[[1000000000|10<sup>-9</sup>m]]）。

有時候也會見到[[埃|埃]]（符號 {{lang|la|Å}}）這個單位，為[[10000000000|10<sup>-10</sup>m]]。

1奈米（nm）= 10 [[埃|埃]]（Å）= 10<sup>-9</sup>m

現時很多材料的微觀尺度都是以奈米为单位、[[半导体器件制造|半導體製程]]標準在2000年代以後大多是以奈米表示。

== 參見 ==
* [[纳米技术|纳米技术]]
* [[国际单位制词头|国际单位制词头]]
* [[数量级_(长度)|数量级 (长度)]]

== 参考文献 ==
* Preparation, Characterization, and Antitumor Efficacy of Evodiamine Loaded PLGA Nanoparticles. Drug Delivery. 2014:1-9. (IF 2.202)
* Nucleolin Targeting AS1411 Aptamer Modified pH-Sensitive Micelles for Enhanced Delivery and Antitumor Efficacy of Paclitaxel. Nano Research. 2015; 8(1): 201-218.  (IF 6.963)
* pH-triggered charge-reversal and redox-responsive nanosystems for efficient docetaxel delivery in hepatocellular carcinoma treatment. Nanoscale, 2015, 7, 15763-15779. (IF: 7.394)
* Glycyrrhetinic Acid-decorated and Reduction-sensitive Micelles to Enhance Bioavailability and Anti-hepatocellular Carcinoma Efficacy of Tanshinone IIA. Biomaterials Science. (In Press, IF: 3.831)

== 外部链接 ==
{{Commonscat|Nanometre}}
* [http://www.wired.com/science/discoveries/multimedia/2008/02/nano_gallery_jmm 纳米尺度下的显微图像]

{{長度單位}}

[[Category:長度單位|Category:長度單位]]
[[Category:度量衡小作品|Category:度量衡小作品]]

[[cs:Metr#Nanometr|cs:Metr#Nanometr]]

{{Measurement-stub}}rdl fkw[ooookfle