'''非特異性間質性肺炎'''（{{lang|en|Non-specific interstitial pneumonia}}，簡稱'''NSIP'''）屬於一種[[特發性間質性肺炎|特發性間質性肺炎]]。

==症狀==
症狀包含[[咳嗽|咳嗽]]、[[呼吸困难|呼吸困难]]，以及[[疲倦|疲倦]]<ref>Cottin, Vincent, et al. "Nonspecific interstitial pneumonia: individualization of a clinicopathologic entity in a series of 12 patients." American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 158.4 (1998): 1286-1293.</ref>。

==病因==
目前認為屬於一種自體免疫有關，可能為{{tsl|en|undifferentiated connective tissue disease|未分化型結締組織疾病}}的併發症<ref>Kinder, Brent W., et al. "Idiopathic nonspecific interstitial pneumonia: lung manifestation of undifferentiated connective tissue disease?." American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 176.7 (2007): 691-697.</ref>。

==分類==
NSIP可依病理切片分為細胞性及纖維性兩種，兩種以預後不同。細胞性的鏡檢會顯示慢性發炎但纖維化較少的情形；纖維性則會顯示間質性纖維化，且發炎狀態不一。在其他種類的特發性肺炎一般有一個明顯的點狀纖維化區域，但在NSIP中沒有這種情形，一般為一整片的纖維化<ref>Travis, William D., et al. "Idiopathic nonspecific interstitial pneumonia: report of an American Thoracic Society project." American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 177.12 (2008): 1338-1347.</ref>。

==預後==
纖維性NSIP的五年存活率約於 86% 至 92%之間，細胞性則為 100% 。大體來說NSIP的預後較{{tsl|en|usual interstitial pneumonia|尋常性間質性肺炎}}（UIP）為佳<ref>Travis, William D., et al. "Idiopathic nonspecific interstitial pneumonia: prognostic significance of cellular and fibrosing patterns: survival comparison with usual interstitial pneumonia and desquamative interstitial pneumonia." The American journal of surgical pathology 24.1 (2000): 19-33.</ref>。

==參考文獻==
{{reflist}}

{{Respiratory pathology}}

[[Category:肺炎|Category:肺炎]]