{{Infobox chess player
|name = 诺娜·加普林达什维利<br/>ნონა გაფრინდაშვილი
|image= Nona Gaprindaschwili 1982 Kissingen.jpg
|caption= 摄于1982年
|birthname = 
|country = [[苏联|苏联]]<br/>[[格鲁吉亚|格鲁吉亚]]
|birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1941|5|3|df=y}}
|birth_place = {{USSR}}[[祖格迪迪|祖格迪迪]]
|death_date =
|death_place =
|title = [[国际象棋特级大师|特级大师]]
|worldchampion =
|womensworldchampion = 1962年－1978年
|rating = 
|peakrating = 2495（1987年7月）
|FideID = 13600125
}}
'''诺娜·加普林达什维利'''（{{lang-ka|ნონა გაფრინდაშვილი}}，{{bd|1941年|5月3日}}），[[格鲁吉亚|格鲁吉亚]]女子[[国际象棋|国际象棋]]棋手、前[[国际象棋女子世界冠军|国际象棋女子世界冠军]]，是第一位获得[[国际象棋特级大师|特级大师]]称号的女棋手。

1962年，加普林达什维利以7胜4平的优异表现战胜卫冕冠军[[叶丽萨维塔·贝科娃|叶丽萨维塔·贝科娃]]，成为了第五位女子世界冠军。此后，她于1965年、1969年、1972年三度战胜[[阿拉·库什尼尔|阿拉·库什尼尔]]，又于1975年战胜同样来自格鲁吉亚的[[娜娜·亚历山德里娅|娜娜·亚历山德里娅]]，先后四次卫冕世界冠军。最终，她于1978年输给格鲁吉亚棋手[[玛雅·齐布尔达尼泽|玛雅·齐布尔达尼泽]]而让出世界冠军头衔。

在苏联国内赛场上，她则是获得过1964年、1973年、1981年、1983年、1985年五度苏联国际象棋全国女子冠军。1963年至1992年间，她十二次代表苏联与格鲁吉亚出征[[国际象棋奥林匹克|国际象棋奥林匹克]]<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.olimpbase.org/playersw/pbjz9lbk.html |title=OlimpBase: Women's Chess Olympiads, Nona Gaprindashvili |accessdate=2016-03-26 |archive-date=2016-03-03 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160303175635/http://www.olimpbase.org/playersw/pbjz9lbk.html |dead-url=no }}</ref> ，共获得了25枚奖牌，包括11枚团体金牌与9枚个人金牌。

1978年，加普林达什维利成为了首位获[[国际象棋特级大师|国际象棋特级大师]]称号的女棋手。<ref>Pal Benko wrote in ''[[Chess_Life|Chess Life & Review]]'' (January 1979):

:''...Of course (Nona) had earned the "woman grandmaster" title awarded by the International Chess Federation (FIDE), as have some two dozen other women. But she also earned the (men's) international master title, becoming the first woman ever to have done so ([[Vera_Menchik|Vera Menchik]] was probably strong enough to have earned this title, but she died in 1943 (sic), long before the modern title system was adopted), and in [[Buenos_Aires|Buenos Aires]] in November 1978 FIDE bestowed upon Nona Gaprindashvili the (men's) international grandmaster title. Not only is she the only woman ever to have received this title, she is the only woman ever to have deserved it.''

:''It is regrettable, therefore, that she did not actually earn the title in the regular way: FIDE requires that to earn the grandmaster title a player must achieve certain minimum scores in tournaments consisting of at least twenty-four games in aggregate (the description is highly oversimplified, but you get the idea), and Nona was two or three games short. Yet the [[FIDE|FIDE]] Qualifications Commission voted to give her the title. In my opinion, this historic occasion should not have been allowed to carry even this slight tarnish.''</ref>

后来，她还于1995年、2009年、2014年、2015年先后四次成为了国际象棋老年女子世界冠军。

== 参见 ==
* [[加普林达什维利杯|加普林达什维利杯]]

== 参考文献 ==
{{reflist}}

== 外部链接 ==
{{commons category|Nona Gaprindashvili}}
*{{Fide}}
*[http://www.365chess.com/players/Nona_Gaprindashvili Nona Gaprindashvili] {{Wayback|url=http://www.365chess.com/players/Nona_Gaprindashvili |date=20210515063052 }} chess games at 365Chess.com
*{{chessgames player|id=16111}}

{{女子国际象棋世界冠军}}
{{Authority control}}

[[Category:苏联国际象棋棋手|Category:苏联国际象棋棋手]]
[[Category:格鲁吉亚国际象棋棋手|Category:格鲁吉亚国际象棋棋手]]
[[Category:国际象棋世界冠军|Category:国际象棋世界冠军]]
[[Category:国际象棋特级大师|Category:国际象棋特级大师]]
[[Category:国际象棋女子特级大师|Category:国际象棋女子特级大师]]