{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Cirrochroa
| authority = Doubleday, 1847
| image = Tamil Yeoman.jpg
| image_caption = [[塔轆蛺蝶|塔轆蛺蝶]]<br />''C. thais''
| type_species = [[轆蛺蝶|轆蛺蝶]]<br />''Cirrochroa aoris''
| type_species_authority = Doubleday, [1847]
| subdivision_ranks = 種
| subdivision = 共17種，參見正文。
}}

'''{{zy|轆|-{zh-cn:lù;zh-tw:ㄌㄨˋ;zh-hk:luk1;zh-sg:lù}-}}蛺蝶屬'''（學名：''Cirrochroa''，英文：Yeomen）是[[蛺蝶科|蛺蝶科]][[釉蛺蝶亞科|釉蛺蝶亞科]]中的一個屬。分佈於[[印度|印度]]至[[新畿內亞|新畿內亞]]一帶<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2006. [http://tolweb.org/Cirrochroa/70426/2006.12.09 Cirrochroa Doubleday 1847]. Version 09 December 2006 (temporary). in [http://tolweb.org/ The Tree of Life Web Project] {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* [[轆蛺蝶|轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa aoris'' Doubleday, 1847
* [[克萊轆蛺蝶|克萊轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa clagia'' Godart, 1824
* [[埃瑪轆蛺蝶|埃瑪轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa emalea'' Guérin-Méneville, 1843
* ''Cirrochroa eremita'' Tsukada, 1985
* [[大藍轆蛺蝶|大藍轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa imperatrix'' Grose-Smith, 1894
* [[美轆蛺蝶|美轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa malaya'' C. & R. Felder, 1860
* [[月轆蛺蝶|月轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa menones'' Semper, 1888
* [[娜轆蛺蝶|娜轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa niassica'' Honrath, 1892
* [[妮轆蛺蝶|妮轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa nicobarica'' Wood-Mason, 1881
* [[奧轆蛺蝶|奧轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa orissa'' C. & R. Felder, 1860
* ''Cirrochroa recondita'' Roos, 1996
* [[橙轆蛺蝶|橙轆蛺蝶]]''Cirrochroa regina'' C. & R. Felder, 1867
* [[莎轆蛺蝶|莎轆蛺蝶]]''Cirrochroa satellita'' Butler, 1869
* [[瑟轆蛺蝶|瑟轆蛺蝶]]''Cirrochroa semiramis'' C. & R. Felder, 1867
* [[素雅轆蛺蝶|素雅轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa surya'' Moore, 1879 – Little Yeoman
* [[塔轆蛺蝶|塔轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa thais'' Fabricius, 1787 – Tamil Yeoman
* [[幸運轆蛺蝶|幸運轆蛺蝶]] ''Cirrochroa tyche'' C. & R. Felder, 1861
* [[圖麗轆蛺蝶|圖麗轆蛺蝶]]''Cirrochroa thule'' C. & R. Felder, 1860

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 参考資料 ==
* Corbet AS, Pendlebury HM, and Eliot JN. 1992. The butterflies of the Malay Peninsula. Malayan Nature Society, Kuala Lumpur.
* Parsons M. 1999. The butterflies of Papua New Guinea: their systematics and biology. Academic Press, San Diego.
* Vane-Wright RI, and de Jong R. 2003. The butterflies of Sulawesi: annotated checklist for a critical island fauna. Zoologische Verhandelingen 343: 1-267.
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

{{Commonscat-inline| Prosotas}}
{{taxonbar|from= Q1757983}}
{{-}}
{{轆蛺蝶屬}}
{{釉蛺蝶亞科|state=expanded}}
[[Category:轆蛺蝶屬|]]
[[Category:_蛺蝶科|L]]
[[Category:_1847年描述的分类群|L]]