{{expand|time=2014-12-14T07:59:22+00:00}}
{{Medical}}
{{Infobox disease |
  Name           = 間質性腎炎<br>（{{lang|en|Interstitial nephritis}}） |
  ICD10          = {{ICD10|N|10||n|10}}-{{ICD10|N|12||n|10}}|
  ICD9           = {{ICD9|580.89}}, {{ICD9|581.89}}, {{ICD9|582.89}}, {{ICD9|583.89}} |
  ICDO           = |
  Image          = |
  Caption        = |
  OMIM           = |
  OMIM_mult      = |
  MedlinePlus    = 000464 |
  eMedicineSubj  = med |
  eMedicineTopic = 1596 |
  DiseasesDB     = 6854 |
  MeshID         = D009395 |
}}

'''間質性腎炎'''（{{lang|en|Interstitial nephritis}}）、或'''腎小管－間質性腎炎'''（{{lang|en|tubulo-interstitial nephritis}}）是一種影響[[腎|腎臟]][[腎單位|腎小管]]周圍[[组织液|間質]]的[[腎炎|腎炎]]病症。這種病可以是急性的、這意味著它會突然發生；或慢性、這意味著它是持續的，最終結束於[[腎功能衰竭|腎功能衰竭]]。

==病因==
{{seealso|腎功能|腎生理學}}

常見的病因包括感染，或藥物反應（比如[[止痛劑|止痛劑]]、或[[抗生素|抗生素]]如[[甲氧西林|甲氧西林]]（meticillin））。藥物反應引起71％<ref name="pmid14671029">{{cite journal |author=Baker R, Pusey C |title=The changing profile of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis |journal=Nephrol Dial Transplant |volume=19 |issue=1 |pages=8–11 |year=2004 |pmid=14671029 |url=http://ndt.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/full/19/1/8 |doi=10.1093/ndt/gfg464 |access-date=2014-12-14 |archive-date=2010-05-29 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20100529232646/http://ndt.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/full/19/1/8 |dead-url=no }}</ref>至92％<ref name="pmid15340098">{{cite journal |author=Clarkson M, Giblin L, O'Connell F, O'Kelly P, Walshe J, Conlon P, O'Meara Y, Dormon A, Campbell E, Donohoe J |title=Acute interstitial nephritis: clinical features and response to corticosteroid therapy |journal=Nephrol Dial Transplant |volume=19 |issue=11 |pages=2778–83 |year=2004 |pmid=15340098 |doi=10.1093/ndt/gfh485}}</ref>的病例。

這種疾病也是由其他疾病，以及由腎損傷毒素所引起的。<!--Both acute and chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis can be caused by a bacterial infection in the kidneys known as [[pyelonephritis|pyelonephritis]], but the most common cause is by an adverse reaction to a drug.  The drugs that are known to cause this sort of reaction are antibiotics such as [[penicillin|penicillin]] and [[cephalexin|cephalexin]], and [[nonsteroidal_anti-inflammatory_drugs|nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs]] (aspirin less frequently than others), as well as rifampicin, sulfa drugs, quinolones, diuretics, allopurinol, and phenytoin.  The time between exposure to the drug and the development of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis can be anywhere from 5 days to 5 months (fenoprofen induced).-->

==診斷==<!--
At times, there are no symptoms of this disease, but when they do occur they are widely varied and can occur rapidly or gradually.<ref name="pmid14671029"/><ref name="pmid11473672">{{cite journal |author=Rossert J |title=Drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis |journal=Kidney Int |volume=60 |issue=2 |pages=804–17 |year=2001 |pmid=11473672 | url=http://www.nature.com/ki/journal/v60/n2/full/4492487a.html | doi=10.1046/j.1523-1755.2001.060002804.x}}</ref><ref name="pmid6604293">{{cite journal |author=Pusey C, Saltissi D, Bloodworth L, Rainford D, Christie J |title=Drug associated acute interstitial nephritis: clinical and pathological features and the response to high dose steroid therapy |journal=Q J Med |volume=52 |issue=206 |pages=194–211 |year=1983 |pmid=6604293}}</ref><ref name="pmid3779558">{{cite journal |author=Handa S |title=Drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis: report of 10 cases |journal=CMAJ |volume=135 |issue=11 |pages=1278–81 |year=1986 |pmid=3779558 |pmc=1491384}}</ref><ref name="pmid2113219">{{cite journal |author=Buysen J, Houthoff H, Krediet R, Arisz L |title=Acute interstitial nephritis: a clinical and morphological study in 27 patients |url=https://archive.org/details/sim_nephrology-dialysis-transplantation_1990-02_5_2/page/94 |journal=Nephrol Dial Transplant |volume=5 |issue=2 |pages=94–9 |year=1990 |pmid=2113219 |doi=10.1093/ndt/5.2.94}}</ref>  When caused by an allergic reaction, the symptoms of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis are fever (27% of patients),<ref name="pmid14671029"/> rash (15% of patients),<ref name="pmid14671029"/> and enlarged kidneys.  Some people experience [[dysuria|dysuria]], and lower back pain.  In chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis the patient can experience symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and weight loss.  Other conditions that may develop include [[hyperkalemia|hyperkalemia]], [[metabolic_acidosis|metabolic acidosis]], and kidney failure.-->

===驗血===
約23％的患者有[[嗜酸粒細胞增多症|嗜酸粒細胞增多症]]（Eosinophilia）。<ref name="pmid14671029"/>

===尿結果===<!--
Urinary findings include:
* [[Eosinophiluria|Eosinophiluria]]: Original studies with Methicillin-induced AIN showed [[sensitivity_(tests)|sensitivity]] of 67% and [[specificity_(tests)|specificity]] of 83%.<ref name="pmid11473672"/><ref name="pmid11020015">{{cite journal |author=Schwarz A, Krause P, Kunzendorf U, Keller F, Distler A |title=The outcome of acute interstitial nephritis risk factors for the transition from acute to chronic interstitial nephritis |journal=Clin Nephrol |volume=54 |issue=3 |pages=179–90 |year=2000 |pmid=11020015}}</ref> The [[sensitivity_(tests)|sensitivity]] is higher in patients with interstitial nephritis induced by [[methicillin|methicillin]] or when the Hansel's stain is used. However, recent studies have called into question the accuracy of this test. A recent study showed that the sensitivity and specificity of urine eosinophil testing are 35.6% and 68% respectively. <ref>Muriithi, A.K., S.H. Nasr, and N. Leung, Utility of urine eosinophils in the diagnosis of acute interstitial nephritis. Clinical Journal of The American Society of Nephrology: CJASN, 2013. 8(11): p. 1857-62.</ref><ref>Perazella, M.A. and A.S. Bomback, Urinary eosinophils in AIN: farewell to an old biomarker? Clinical Journal of The American Society of Nephrology: CJASN, 2013. 8(11): p. 1841-3.</ref>
* [[Isosthenuria|Isosthenuria]].<ref name="pmid3769228">{{cite journal |author=Lins R, Verpooten G, De Clerck D, De Broe M |title=Urinary indices in acute interstitial nephritis |journal=Clin Nephrol |volume=26 |issue=3 |pages=131–3 |year=1986 |pmid=3769228}}</ref>
* [[Hematuria|Hematuria]] and occasional RBC casts <ref>Fogazzi, G.B., et al., Urinary sediment findings in acute interstitial nephritis. American Journal of Kidney Diseases, 2012. 60(2): p. 330-332</ref>
* Sterile [[pyuria|pyuria]]: white blood cells and no bacteria
* Nephrotic-range proteinuria may be seen with NSAID-associated AIN-->

===鎵掃描===<!--
The [[sensitivity_(tests)|sensitivity]] of an abnormal [[gallium_scan|gallium scan]] has been reported to range from 60%<ref name="pmid6864309">{{cite journal |author=Graham G, Lundy M, Moreno A |title=Failure of Gallium-67 scintigraphy to identify reliably noninfectious interstitial nephritis: concise communication |url=https://archive.org/details/sim_journal-of-nuclear-medicine_1983-07_24_7/page/568 |journal=J Nucl Med |volume=24 |issue=7 |pages=568–70 |year=1983 |pmid=6864309}}</ref> to 100%.<ref name="pmid3862487">{{cite journal |author=Linton A, Richmond J, Clark W, Lindsay R, Driedger A, Lamki L |title=Gallium67 scintigraphy in the diagnosis of acute renal disease |journal=Clin Nephrol |volume=24 |issue=2 |pages=84–7 |year=1985 |pmid=3862487}}</ref>-->

==治療==<!--
Remove the cause such as an offending drug. [[Corticosteroids|Corticosteroids]] do not clearly help.<ref name="pmid15340098"/>
Nutrition therapy consists of adequate fluid intake, which can require several liters of extra fluid.<ref>{{cite book |author=Mahan KL, Escott-Stump S |editor= Alexopolos Y |title= Krause's Food, Nutrition, & Diet Therapy|edition= 11th|publisher= Saunders |location= Philadelphia Pennsylvania |isbn= 0-7216-9784-4 |chapter= 39|page= 968 |year= 2003}}</ref>-->

==預後==<!--
The kidneys are the only body system that are directly affected by tubulointerstitial nephritis.  Kidney function is usually reduced; the kidneys can be just slightly dysfunctional, or fail completely.

In chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis, the most serious long-term effect is kidney failure.  When the proximal tubule is injured, sodium, potassium, bicarbonate, uric acid, and phosphate reabsorption may be reduced or changed, resulting in low bicarbonate, known as [[metabolic_acidosis|metabolic acidosis]], low potassium, low uric acid known as hypouricemia, and low phosphate known as hypophosphatemia.  Damage to the distal tubule may cause loss of urine-concentrating ability and [[polyuria|polyuria]].

In most cases of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, the function of the kidneys will return after the harmful drug is not taken anymore, or when the underlying disease is cured by treatment.  If the illness is caused by an allergic reaction, a corticosteroid may speed the recovery kidney function; however, this is often not the case.

Chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis has no cure.  Some patients may require [[dialysis|dialysis]].  Eventually, a kidney transplant may be needed.-->

==註釋==
{{Reflist|2}}

==外部連結==
* [http://www.merck.com/mmpe/sec17/ch236/ch236c.html Merck Manual] {{Wayback|url=http://www.merck.com/mmpe/sec17/ch236/ch236c.html |date=20101105162337 }}

{{過敏狀況}}
{{Nephrology}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Interstitial Nephritis}}
[[Category:肾脏疾病|Category:肾脏疾病]]