'''先行詞'''（上行語，{{lang-en|antecedent}}）為[[語法|語法]]上(字詞，短語，從句<子句>等)賦予其[[代詞語式|代詞語式]]（proform，代名詞、代動詞、親副詞等）意義的一種表達式。<ref>Definitions of "antecedent" along these lines can be found, for instance, in Crystal (1999:20) and Radford (2004:322)</ref> 一種"代詞語式"可從其先行詞得出它的意義，例如英語句子："Susan arrived late because traffic held her up."(蘇珊來遲了，因為交通狀況延遲了她的行程)。代詞"her"（她）表明為"Susan"（蘇珊）且其含義也來自"蘇珊"，所以蘇珊是"her"（她）的"先行詞"。"代詞語式"通常跟隨他們的先行詞，但有時它們在先行詞前面，在這種情況下從技術上而言，以處理"下行詞"（postcedent）而不是"上行詞"。前綴<ante->意即"之前"、"在前面"之意，而<post->意即"之後"、"在後面"之意。術語"先行詞"源於傳統的語法。在語言學的術語方面，"先行詞"和"代詞語式"為密切關連，而屬於{{tsl|en|Anaphora (linguistics)|照应}}關係。依據{{tsl|en|Binding (linguistics)|約束 (語言學)|約束}}理論、語法理論的可以辨別出"先行詞"及"下行詞"之間的區別。
<!--
==範例==
Most any [[syntactic_category|syntactic category]] can serve as the antecedent to a proform. The following examples illustrate a range of proforms and their antecedents. The proforms are in bold, and their antecedents are underlined:

::a. <u>Willy</u> said '''he''' likes chocolate. <small>- Noun as antecedent</small>

::b. <u>My eccentric uncle</u> likes chocolate. '''He''' tells everyone to buy him chocolate. <small>- Noun phrase as antecedent</small>

::c. Larry was <u>helpful</u>, and '''so''' was Kim. <small>- Adjective as antecedent</small>

::d. He arrived <u>in the afternoon</u>, '''when''' nobody was home. <small>- Prepositional phrase as antecedent</small>

::e. Thomas plays soccer <u>in the park</u>. The kids all congregate '''there'''. <small>- Prepositional phrase as antecedent</small>

::f. Our helpers did it <u>very carefully</u>, and we did it '''like that''' as well.  <small>- Adverb phrase as antecedent</small>

::g. Fred <u>works hard</u>, but Tom does not '''do the same'''. <small>- Verb phrase as antecedent</small>

::h. <u>Susan lies all the time</u>, '''which''' everybody knows about. <small>- Entire clause as antecedent</small>

::i. <u>Our politicians have been pandering again</u>. '''This''' demotivates the voters. <small>- Entire sentence as antecedent
</small>

::j. <u>Someone</u> called <u>who offered to help</u>. '''She''' was really friendly. <small>- Discontinuous word combination as antecedent</small>

::k. <u>The paragraph</u> has in fact been <u>checked</u> by Sam, but Susan won't '''do it'''. <small>- Discontinuous word combination as antecedent</small>

This list of proforms and the types of antecedents that they take is by no means exhaustive, but rather it is intended to merely deliver an impression of the breadth of expressions that can function as proforms and antecedents. While the stereotypical proform is a pronoun and the stereotypical antecedent a noun or noun phrase, these examples demonstrate that most any syntactic category can in fact serve as an antecedent to a proform, whereby the proforms themselves are a diverse bunch.<ref>Carnie (2013:150) defines antecedent as ''an NP that gives its meaning to another NP''. Carnie's definition is too narrow, as many of the examples here illustrate. Antecedents (and proforms) are not limited to the noun or noun phrase categories.</ref> The last two examples are particularly interesting, because they show that some proforms can even take discontinuous word combinations as antecedents, i.e. the antecedents are NOT [[Constituent_(linguistics)|constituent]]s. A particularly frequent type of proform occurs in [[relative_clause|relative clause]]s. Many relative clauses contain a relative pronoun, and these relative pronouns have an antecedent. Sentences d and h above contain relative clauses; the proforms ''when'' and ''which'' are relative proforms.

==下行語==

The ''ante-'' in ''antecedent'' means 'before, in front of'. Thus when a proform precedes its antecedent, the antecedent is technically not an antecedent, but rather it is a '''post'''cedent, ''post-'' meaning 'after, behind'. The following examples illustrate postcedents:

::a. When '''it''' is ready, I'll have a cup of <u>coffee</u>. <small>- Noun as postcedent</small>

::b. In '''her''' bed, <u>my friend</u> spends the entire morning. <small>- Noun phrase as postcedent
</small>
::c. '''It''' bothered me <u>that she did not call</u>. <small>- Clause as postcedent, example of ''it''-[[extraposition|extraposition]]</small>

::d. Two violinists were '''there''', <u>at the party</u>. <small>- Prepositional phrase as postcedent</small>

::e. Sam tries to work '''then''', <u>when it is raining</u>. <small>- Clause as postcedent</small>

Postcedents are rare compared to antecedents, and in practice, the distinction between antecedents and postcedents is often ignored, the term ''antecedent'' being used to denote both. This practice is a source of confusion and some have therefore denounced the term ''antecedent'' outright because of this confusion.<ref>For an example of a linguist who rejects the term antecedent because of the confusion it generates (due to the failure to distinguish between antecedents and postcedents), see [[Lucien_Tesnière|Tesnière]] (1969:86f.).</ref>

==Implied antecedents==

Some proforms lack a linguistic antecedent (or postcedent). In such cases, the antecedent is implied in the given discourse environment or from general knowledge of the world. For instance, the first person pronouns ''I'', ''me'', ''we'', and ''us'' and second person pronoun ''you'' are proforms that usually lack a linguistic antecedent. However, their antecedents are present in the discourse context as the speaker and the listener. Pleonastic proforms also lack a linguistic antecedent, e.g. ''It is raining'', where the pronoun ''it'' is semantically empty and cannot be viewed as referring to anything specific in the discourse world. Definite proforms such as ''they'' and ''you'' also have an indefinite use, which means they denote some person or people in general, e.g. ''They will get you for that'', and therefore cannot be construed as taking a linguistic antecedent.
-->

==注释==
{{Reflist|2}}

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
*Carnie, A. 2013. Syntax: A generative introduction. 3rd edition. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
*Crystal, D. 1997. A dictionary of linguistics and phonetics. 4th edition. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell Publishers.
*Radford, A. 2004. English syntax: An introduction. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
*Tesnière, L. 1969. Éléments de syntaxe structurale, 2nd edition. Klincksieck, Paris.
{{refend}}

==參見==
*[[代詞語式|代詞語式]](Proform)
*[[關係子句|關係子句]]
*[[句法範疇|句法範疇]](Syntactic category)
*[[下指語|下指語]](Cataphora/cataphor)
*[[下行語|下行語]](postcedent/後行詞)

[[Category:語法關係|Category:語法關係]]