{{noteTA
|G1=Adventure Time}}
{{Infobox television episode
| title        = 學人精
| series       = [[探險活寶|探險活寶]]
| season       = 4
| episode      = 7
| production = 1008-083<ref name=prodnumbers>{{cite web|title=Shows A-Z, Adventure Time With Finn and Jake|url=http://www.thefutoncritic.com/showatch/adventure-time-with-finn-and-jake/listings/|publisher=[[The_Futon_Critic|The Futon Critic]]|accessdate=February 3, 2013|archive-date=2013-02-16|archive-url=https://archive.is/20130216213150/http://www.thefutoncritic.com/showatch/adventure-time-with-finn-and-jake/listings/|dead-url=no}}</ref>
| story        = {{le|派屈克·麥克海爾|Patrick McHale(cartoonist)}}<br />{{le|肯特·奧斯本|Kent Osborne}}<br />[[潘得頓·沃德|潘得頓·沃德]]
| writer       =  {{le|湯姆·赫皮奇|Tom Herpich}}<br>{{le|斯凱勒·珮基|Skyler Page}}
| director     = {{le|拉里·萊奇力特|Larry Leichliter}}
| airdate      = 2012年5月7日
| music        = 
| guests       = 
| length       = 11分鐘
| prev         = [[爸爸的小怪獸|爸爸的小怪獸]]
| next         = [[抱抱狼|抱抱狼]]
| episode list = 
{{Infobox Adventure Time season 4 episode list}}
<br>[[探險活寶各集列表|探險活寶各集列表]]
}}
〈'''學人精'''〉（{{lang-en|''In Your Footsteps''}}）是《[[探險活寶|探險活寶]]》[[探險活寶_(第四季)|第四季]]的第7集。在[[卡通頻道|卡通頻道]]2012年5月7日播出。本集以[[阿寶·馬頓斯|阿寶]]和[[酷狗老皮|老皮]]為主角。在這一集裡，熊跟阿寶結為好友，但老皮認為他計畫竊取阿寶的身份。在結尾，阿寶好心給熊一本「英雄寶典」，相信他學習當一名英雄，然而，熊其實是為陰魔王暗中進行。

<!--==劇情==
While partying with Princess Bubblegum and her subjects in the woods, Finn and Jake meet a friendly bear who follows them home. The creature begins to copy everything that Finn does; Finn finds this amusing, but Jake finds creepy. Later that night, Jake discovers the bear, dressed as Finn, copying his mannerisms and sayings; Jake thus concludes that the creature is trying to replace Finn. However, he is unable to provide it to Finn.

The next day, after Finn leaves to take BMO to soccer practice, the bear proceeds to eat Finn’s special “Finn cakes”. Jake decides to set the bear up, by filming him eating the cakes. Finn is later upset at Jake for not stopping the creature. However, both notice a sign, claiming that there will be a party in the forest hosted by Finn. The two rush to the woods to see the bear, clearly disguised as Finn, partying with Bubblegum and the candy people. Finn, finally angered, reproaches the bear, who runs off into the woods, sobbing. Finn, realizing the bear was copying Finn because he idolized him, apologizes to him and gives him the ''[[The_Enchiridion!|Enchiridion]]'' as a way to make amends.

However, the [[coda|coda]] of the episode features the bear taking the ''Enchiridion'' to the Lich-possessed snail, setting up the events for the [[Adventure_Time_(season_4)|fourth season]] finale, “[[The_Lich_(Adventure_Time_episode)|The Lich]]”.

==Production==
"In Your Footsteps" was written and storyboarded by [[Tom_Herpich|Tom Herpich]] and [[Skyler_Page|Skyler Page]], from a story developed by series creator [[Pendleton_Ward|Pendleton Ward]], [[Patrick_McHale_(cartoonist)|Patrick McHale]], and [[Kent_Osborne|Kent Osborne]].<ref name=episodecredits>{{cite episode| title=Dream of Love| series=Adventure Time| serieslink=|credits = [[Larry_Leichliter|Larry Leichliter]] (director); Tom Herpich & Skyler Page (writers) | network = [[Cartoon_Network|Cartoon Network]] |airdate=May 7, 2012| season = 4 | number = 7}}</ref> This episode marked Herpich and Page's first official board together, as [[Cole_Sanchez|Cole Sanchez]] had assisted the two in storyboarding "[[Five_Short_Graybles|Five Short Graybles]]" as a way to acclimate Page to the ''Adventure Time'' process. According to Herpich, the scene where Jake hears the bear pretending to be Finn in the night is stylistically similar to a scene in the [[Adventure_Time_(season_3)|third season]] episode "Conquest of Cuteness" where Finn and Jake hear a voice in the night. Herpich later noted that he tried to storyboard the scene in "In Your Footsteps" in a way so as to not copy what he had previously done for the show.<ref name=herpichfootsteps>Herpich, Tom (Storyboard artist). 2014. "In Your Footsteps" [Commentary track], ''Adventure Time'' Season Four [DVD], Los Angeles, CA: [[Cartoon_Network|Cartoon Network]].</ref>

The ending of the episode sets up the fourth season finale "The Lich". Herpich noted that there were originally supposed to have been other episodes peppered throughout the season that would have hinted at the finale, but in the end, only the denouement of this episode suggested what was to come.<ref name=herpichfootsteps/> The Lich-possessed Snail was voiced by Ward.<ref>{{cite web|last=Ristaino|first=Andy|title=[Andy Ristaino, revealing who voiced the Snail]|url=http://www.formspring.me/skronked/q/324089489322437247|archiveurl=http://www.webcitation.org/6FC0vSPUH|archivedate=March 17, 2013|publisher=[[Spring.me|Spring.me]]|accessdate=January 30, 2013|date=May 8, 2012}}</ref>

==Reception==
"In Your Footsteps" aired on [[Cartoon_Network|Cartoon Network]] on May 7, 2012. The episode ranked as the number one telecast in its timeslot among kids aged 2 to 11, and in all boy demographics, according to [[Nielsen_ratings|Nielsen ratings]].<ref>{{cite web|last1=Bibel|first1=Sara|title=Ratings Notes for Adult Swim, TBS, Cartoon Network, TNT & TruTV : NBA Playoffs, & 'Loiter Squad', 'Regular Show', 'Adventure Time', 'Conan', 'Hardcore Pawn'|url=http://tvbythenumbers.zap2it.com/2012/05/15/ratings-notes-for-adult-swim-tbs-cartoon-network-tnt-trutv-nba-playoffs-loiter-squad-regular-show-adventure-time-conan-hardcore-pawn/134385/|website=[[TV_by_the_Numbers|TV by the Numbers]]|publisher=[[Zap2it|Zap2it]]|accessdate=August 23, 2014|date=May 15, 2012}}</ref> The episode first saw physical release as part of the complete fourth season DVD in October 2014.<ref name=seasonfour>{{cite web|title=Cartoon Network-Adventure Time-Complete 4th Season|url=http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00KH57UXS|publisher=[[Amazon.com|Amazon.com]]|accessdate=June 27, 2014|date=June 27, 2014}}</ref>

Oliver Sava of ''[[The_A.V._Club|The A.V. Club]]'' awarded the episode a "B–", calling the installment a "breather episode, showing Finn and Jake relaxing before they head off on whatever adventure is waiting for them next."<ref name=avclubbear/> However, he also pointed out that the episode ended on a [[cliffhanger|cliffhanger]], something that rarely happened in ''Adventure Time'' at the time of its airing. Sava also called the scene wherein the oft-spotted snail speaks "a landmark ''Adventure Time'' moment".<ref name=avclubbear/> Ultimately, Sava concluded that "the cliffhanger introduces a slew of intriguing possibilities for ''Adventure Time'', and it would definitely be ambitious for the series to try a serialized story in the midst of the wacky comedy."<ref name=avclubbear>{{cite web|last1=Sava|first1=Oliver|title=Adventure Time: 'In Your Footsteps'|url=http://www.avclub.com/tvclub/adventure-time-in-your-footsteps-73241|website=[[The_A.V._Club|The A.V. Club]]|publisher=[[The_Onion|The Onion]]|accessdate=August 24, 2014|date=May 8, 2012}}</ref>

Mike Lechevaillier of ''[[Slate_(magazine)|Slate]]'' magazine, in a review of the fourth season, called the episode "charming", and applauded the exploration of Jake's character. He compared the episode favorably to the [[Adventure_Time_(season_3)|third season]] installment "No One Can Hear You" in terms of its focus on "Jake's slippery sanity", and he applauded DiMaggio's voice acting, writing that his "delivery of Jake's panic-stricken sessions is a true testament to the actor's degree of successive theatrical refinement.<ref name=season4slate>{{cite web|last=LeChevallier|first=Mike|title=Adventure Time: Season Four|url=http://www.slantmagazine.com/tv/review/adventure-time-season-four/328|work=[[Slate_(magazine)|Slate]]|publisher=[[The_Washington_Post_Company|The Washington Post Company]]|accessdate=January 26, 2013|date=May 13, 2012}}</ref>

-->

==參考文獻==
{{Reflist|2}}

{{探險活寶}}

[[Category:探險活寶|Category:探險活寶]]
[[Category:2012年電視劇分集|Category:2012年電視劇分集]]
[[Category:熊題材作品|Category:熊題材作品]]