{{Otheruses|other=名为方志恒的其他人物|方志恒}}
{{expand|time=2015-10-22T09:21:24+00:00}}
{{noteTA|
|T=zh-hant:方志恒; zh-hans:方志恒;
|1=zh-hant:方志恒; zh-hans:方志恒;
}} 
{{Infobox_Person
| honorific_prefix = [[哲學博士|Dr]]
| name=Brian C.H. Fong<br>方志恒
| honorific_suffix = [[哲學博士|博士]]
| image=File:方志恒.jpg
| nationality      = {{CNHK}}
|occupation=[[香港教育大學|香港教育大學]]亞洲及政策研究學系[[副教授|副教授]]
|education=[[香港城市大學|香港城市大學]]公共政策學系哲學博士
}}

'''方志恒'''（{{bd|1978年|12月5日||}}），香港政治學者，原任[[香港教育大學|香港教育大學]][[香港研究學院|香港研究學院]]副總監/副教授，於2022年2月離職。<ref>{{Cite web|title=Political scientist Brian Fong leaves Education University of Hong Kong after pro-Beijing attacks|publisher=South China Morning Post|url=https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/politics/article/3166902/political-scientist-brian-fong-leaves-education-university|4=|access-date=2022-02-13|6=|archive-date=2022-06-02|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20220602203813/https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/politics/article/3166902/political-scientist-brian-fong-leaves-education-university}}</ref>他曾創辦多個香港民間團體。

== 簡介 ==
方志恒於2001年[[香港中文大學|香港中文大學]]政治及行政系畢業後，即加入香港政府任行政主任，直到2007年離開公務員隊伍投身學術界，先在[[香港城市大學專上學院|香港城市大學專上學院]]社會科學部擔任全職講師，並於2012年[[香港城市大學|香港城市大學]]公共政策學系博士畢業。<ref>{{cite web|title=Outstanding Academic Placements|publisher=[[香港城市大學|香港城市大學]]公共政策學系網站|url=https://www.cityu.edu.hk/pol/rpg_placements.asp|access-date=2020-06-16|archive-date=2020-11-28|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20201128001900/http://www.cityu.edu.hk/pol/rpg_placements.asp|dead-url=no}}</ref>。<ref name="#1">{{Cite web |url=https://oraas0.ied.edu.hk/rich/web/people_details.jsp?pid=167613 |title=存档副本 |access-date=2014-04-20 |archive-date=2021-02-11 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210211042556/https://oraas0.ied.edu.hk/rich/web/people_details.jsp?pid=167613 |dead-url=no }}</ref>

博士畢業後，方志恒於2013年加入[[香港教育大學|香港教育大學]]亞洲及政策研究學系任助理教授。2015年，方志恒和[[呂大樂|呂大樂]]於[[香港教育大學|香港教育大學]]創辦[[香港研究學院|香港研究學院]]，建立香港大專院校中首間專門推動香港研究的學院；其間，方志恒升任副教授，並擔任香港研究學院的副總監。<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.eduhk.hk/ahks/ |title=存档副本 |access-date=2020-10-25 |archive-date=2021-02-12 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210212003425/https://www.eduhk.hk/ahks/ |dead-url=no }}</ref>。

==社會參與==
方志恒專注研究香港管治及政制改革問題，長期參與推動各種政制議題。

方志恒在2010年至2019年間任[[新力量網絡|新力量網絡]]副主席，其間曾發表多份研究報告，包括《香港特區政府管治評估報告》、《香港公共財政評估報告》等。

方志恒於2015年7月編輯《香港革新論》，與多位年輕學人以文章從不同角度探討後政改時代香港的政治發展<ref>[http://www.cp1897.com.hk/product_info.php?BookId=9789865671556] {{Wayback|url=http://www.cp1897.com.hk/product_info.php?BookId=9789865671556 |date=20201028221734 }}《香港革新論－－革新保港，民主自治，永續自治。為香港前途而戰》</ref>。 2017年6月，方志恒再編輯了《香港革新論II》，以「中心-邊陲」的理論框架，將香港與奧蘭群島、格陵蘭及南提洛爾等多個自治政體進行學術比較。<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.logos.com.hk/bf/acms/content.asp?site=logosbf&op=show&type=product&code=9789887802709 |title=存档副本 |access-date=2020-10-25 |archive-date=2021-06-22 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210622123737/https://www.logos.com.hk/bf/acms/content.asp?site=logosbf&op=show&type=product&code=9789887802709 |dead-url=no }}</ref>

方志恒曾創辦多個民間團體。2015年，他創辦了民間自治計劃，以[[眾包|眾包]]形式，支援民間團體推動項目，以實現「自己香港一齊救」的民間自治想像。<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.wemaker.hk/about/|title=民間自治計劃是一個公民參與平台|accessdate=2017-04-15|work=民間自治計劃|archive-date=2019-08-15|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190815010158/https://www.wemaker.hk/about/|dead-url=yes}}</ref> 2017年8月，方志恒連同多名學者創辦[[高教公民|高教公民]]，以「學術自主、公民自強」為使命，旨在團結不同院校、世代同職級的香港學者，以及連結各專業界別同民間團體。<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.thestandnews.com/tertiary/%E9%A6%99%E6%B8%AF%E5%AD%B8%E8%80%85%E6%88%90%E7%AB%8B-%E9%AB%98%E6%95%99%E5%85%AC%E6%B0%91-%E5%80%A1%E5%AD%B8%E8%A1%93%E8%87%AA%E4%B8%BB%E5%85%AC%E6%B0%91%E8%87%AA%E5%BC%B7/|title=香港學者成立「高教公民」倡學術自主公民自強|3=|work=高教公民|access-date=2020-10-25|archive-date=2020-11-24|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20201124094811/https://www.thestandnews.com/tertiary/%E9%A6%99%E6%B8%AF%E5%AD%B8%E8%80%85%E6%88%90%E7%AB%8B-%E9%AB%98%E6%95%99%E5%85%AC%E6%B0%91-%E5%80%A1%E5%AD%B8%E8%A1%93%E8%87%AA%E4%B8%BB%E5%85%AC%E6%B0%91%E8%87%AA%E5%BC%B7/|dead-url=no}}</ref>

2018年1月15日，方志恒參與創立「香港永續經濟聯會 HKBASE」，希望建立一個涵蓋不同類型企業的網絡，包括工商、農業及社會企業等，並擔任秘書長一職。<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.thestandnews.com/society/%E6%96%B9%E5%BF%97%E6%81%92%E7%AD%89%E6%88%90%E7%AB%8B%E9%A6%99%E6%B8%AF%E6%B0%B8%E7%BA%8C%E7%B6%93%E6%BF%9F%E8%81%AF%E6%9C%83-%E6%9B%BE%E4%BF%8A%E8%8F%AF%E6%92%90%E5%A0%B4/|title=方志恒等成立香港永續經濟聯會　曾俊華撐場|accessdate=2020-04-18|work=立場新聞|archive-date=2020-10-29|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20201029180749/https://www.thestandnews.com/society/%E6%96%B9%E5%BF%97%E6%81%92%E7%AD%89%E6%88%90%E7%AB%8B%E9%A6%99%E6%B8%AF%E6%B0%B8%E7%BA%8C%E7%B6%93%E6%BF%9F%E8%81%AF%E6%9C%83-%E6%9B%BE%E4%BF%8A%E8%8F%AF%E6%92%90%E5%A0%B4/|dead-url=no}}</ref>

方志恒曾出任各種政府公職，包括於2012年至2013年擔任特區政府之中央政策組非全職顧問，並2014年至2018年擔任香港房屋委員會資助房屋小組委員。<ref>[http://www.housingauthority.gov.hk/tc/about-us/housing-authority/ha-and-its-committees/ha-committees/subsidised-housing-committee.html] {{Wayback|url=http://www.housingauthority.gov.hk/tc/about-us/housing-authority/ha-and-its-committees/ha-committees/subsidised-housing-committee.html |date=20201031051003 }}資助房屋小組委員會</ref>

==著作==
參考來源<ref name="#1"/>
===學術專書===
*Brian C.H. Fong (2021). Hong Kong Politics: In Search of Autonomy, Democracy and Governance. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.  
*Brian C.H. Fong (2021). Hong Kong Public Finance: An Integrated Approach for Studying Budgetary Politics. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.  
*Brian C.H. Fong (2014). Hong Kong’s Governance Under Chinese Sovereignty: The Failure of the State-business Alliance After 1997. Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge.

===學術書籍章節===
*Brian C.H. Fong (2021). Conclusion: Comparative observations across territorial autonomies worldwide. Brian C.H. Fong and Atsuko Ichijo, Routledge Handbook of Comparative Territorial Autonomies (1-15). Abingdon, Oxon; New York: Routledge.  
*Brian C.H. Fong (2020). Re-thinking China’s influence across surrounding jurisdictions: a concentric center-periphery framework. Brian C.H. Fong, Wu Jieh-min and Andrew J. Nathan, China’s Influence and the Centre-periphery Tug of War in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Indo-Pacific (3-23). Abingdon, Oxon; New York: Routledge.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2018). Advisory politics before and after 1997: In search of a new relationship between state, political society and civil society. Tai Lok Lui , Stephen Wing Kai Chiu and Ray Yep, Routledge Handbook of Contemporary Hong Kong (109-122). Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge. 
*Brian C.H. Fong (2018). Executive-legislative Disconnection in the HKSAR: Uneasy partnership between Chief Executives and pro-government parties, 1997-2016. Brian C. H. Fong and Tai-Lok Lui, Hong Kong 20 Years after the Handover: Emerging Social and Institutional Fractures After 1997 (45-71). London: Palgrave. 
*Brian C.H. Fong (2014). Ten Years of Political Appointments in Hong Kong: The Challenges of Developing a Political Appointment System Under a Semi-democratic Regime, 2002 – 2012. In Joseph Cheng (ed.), New Trends of Political Participation in Hong Kong (50-68). Hong Kong: City University of Hong Kong Press.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2013). Political Marketing Campaigns of Chief Executive Donald Tsang: The Challenges of Managing Legitimacy Deficit Under a Semi-democratic Regime. In Joseph Cheng (ed.), The Second Chief Executive of Hong Kong SAR – Evaluating the Tsang Years 2005-2012 (71-96). Hong Kong: City University of Hong Kong Press.

===主編書籍===
*Brian C.H. Fong and Atsuko Ichijo (2021). Routledge Handbook of Comparative Territorial Autonomies. Abingdon, Oxon; New York: Routledge.  
*Brian C.H. Fong, Wu Jiehmin and Andrew J. Nathan (2020). China’s Influence and the Centre-periphery Tug of War in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Indo-Pacific. Abingdon, Oxon; New York: Routledge.
*Brian C. H. Fong and Tai-Lok Lui (Eds.) (2018). Hong Kong 20 Years after the Handover: Emerging Social and Institutional Fractures After 1997. London: Palgrave. 

===學術期刊文章===
*Brian C.H. Fong (2019). Democratization and budget openness: evidences from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. International Review of Administrative Sciences, [accepted and forthcoming], 1-21.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2019). Stateless nation within a nationless state: The political past, present and future of Hongkongers, 1949-2019. Nations and Nationalism, [accepted and forthcoming], 1-21.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2017). One Country, Two Nationalisms: Center-Periphery Relations between Mainland China and Hong Kong, 1997–2016. Modern China, 43, 1-34. 
*Brian C.H. Fong (2016). In-between liberal authoritarianism and electoral authoritarianism: Hong Kong’s democratization under Chinese sovereignty, 1997–2016. Democratization, 24, 1-27. 
*Brian C.H. Fong (2015). The politics of budget surpluses: the case of China's Hong Kong SAR. International Review of Administrative Sciences, 81(1), 134-157. 
*Brian C.H. Fong (2014). The Partnership Between Chinese Government and Hong Kong’s Capitalist Class: Implications for HKSAR Governance, 1997 – 2012. China Quarterly, 217, 195-220. 
*Brian C.H. Fong (2014). Executive-legislative Disconnection in Post-colonial Hong Kong: The Dysfunction of the HKSAR Executive-dominant System, 1997 – 2012. China Perspectives, 2014/1, 5-12. 
*Brian C.H. Fong (2013). State-Society Conflicts under Hong Kong’s Hybrid Regime: Governing Coalition Building and Civil Society Challenges. Asian Survey, 53, 854-882. 
*Brian C.H. Fong (2011). The Rise of Poll-Driven Politics and Image-Dominated Campaigns in Hong Kong: The Case of the 2007 Chief Executive Election. Asian Profile, 39, 273-288.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2008). An Analysis of the 2003 ‘Zero-Three-Three’ Civil Service Pay Reduction Settlement in Hong Kong: A Neopluralist Perspective. Asian Profile, 39, 273-288.

===政策期刊文章===
*Tai-Lok Lui and Brian C. H. Fong (2014). Emerging Social and Institutional Fractures in Post-1997 Hong Kong. China Perspectives, 2014/1, 3-4. 

===研討會發表文章===
*Brian C.H. Fong (2016, March). The wave of localism: Hong Kong’s politics under the shadow of China Factor (in Chinese). A paper presented at the Workshop on ‘‘Comparison of Social and Political Transitions between Taiwan and Hong Kong in the Period of Post-Sunflower & Post-Umbrella Movements’’, Academia Sinica, Taiwan, 25 March 2016, Taiwan.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2015, December). Government-society relations: A comparative study of colonial and SAR Hong Kong (in Chinese). A paper presented at the Workshop on Development of Tradition and Civil Society: A Comparative Study of China, Taiwan and Hong Kong, College of Humanities and Social Sciences, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan, 12 to 12 December 2015, Taiwan.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2012). From Erosion of Trust to Crisis of Governance: The Political Trajectory of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. A paper presented at the Conference on Trust-Building and Governance in Hong Kong and Macao, Hong Kong.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2012). Moving Towards an Electoral Authoritarian Regime? The Challenges and Prospects of Hong Kong’s Democratization. A paper presented at the 6th Asian Political and International Studies Association (APISA) Congress 2012, Hong Kong.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2012). Policy-making Impasse in China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region: The Challenges of Managing Growing Pluralism in the Policy Process. A paper presented at the Third Asian Conference on the Social Sciences, Osaka.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2011). Hong Kong Governance at a Crossroads: The Challenges of Managing Growing Citizen Participation in the Policy Process. A paper presented at the International Conference on Governance and Citizenship in Asia: Paradigms and Practices, Hong Kong.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2008). Pragmatic Leadership: The Political Marketing Strategy of Hong Kong’s Chief Executive Donald Tsang. A paper presented at the International Conference on Communication and Media 2008 (iCOME’ 08), University Utara Malaysia.

===其他===
*Brian C.H. Fong (2013). Book Review: “Repositioning the Hong Kong Government: Social Foundations and Political Challenges, by Stephen Wing-kai Chiu and Siu-lun Wong”. China Information, 27(3), pp. 396-397.
*Brian C.H. Fong (2011). Book Review: “Underground Front: The Chinese Communist Party in Hong Kong, by Christine Loh”. The China Journal, 66, pp.238-240.

==參考連結==
{{reflist}}

==外部連結==
*[https://oraas0.ied.edu.hk/rich/web/people_details.jsp?pid=167613 Dr FONG, Chi Hang Brian] {{Wayback|url=https://oraas0.ied.edu.hk/rich/web/people_details.jsp?pid=167613 |date=20210211042556 }}

{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:F}}
[[Category:方姓|C]]
[[Category:香港中文大學校友|Category:香港中文大學校友]]
[[Category:香港城市大學校友|Category:香港城市大學校友]]
[[Category:香港政治人物|Category:香港政治人物]]
[[Category:香港時事評論員|Category:香港時事評論員]]
[[Category:香港教育大學教授|Category:香港教育大學教授]]
[[Category:香港民主派人士|Category:香港民主派人士]]