{{NoteTA
|G1=Butterfly
}}
{{Taxobox
| color = pink
| name = 尖尾褐環蝶屬
| image = Bia actorion.jpg
| image_caption = [[尖尾褐環蝶|尖尾褐環蝶]]，左為翅面, 右為翅底<br />
''Pavonia seleucida''
| regnum = [[動物界|動物界]] Animalia
| phylum = [[節肢動物門|節肢動物門]] Arthropoda
| classis = [[昆蟲綱|昆蟲綱]] Insecta
| ordo = [[鱗翅目|鱗翅目]] Lepidoptera
| superfamilia = [[真蝶總科|真蝶總科]] Papilionoidea
| familia = [[蛺蝶科|蛺蝶科]] Nymphalidae
| subfamilia = [[閃蝶亞科|閃蝶亞科]] Morphinae
| tribus = [[大翅環蝶族|大翅環蝶族]] Brassolini
| subtribus = 大翅環蝶亞族 Brassolina
| genus = '''尖尾褐環蝶屬 ''Bia'''''
| genus_authority = Hübner, [1819]
| type_species = [[尖尾褐環蝶|尖尾褐環蝶]]<br />
''Bia actoriaena''
| type_species_authority = Hübner, [1819]
| subdivision_ranks = [[種|種]]
| subdivision = 
共兩種﹐詳見正文。
| synonyms =
* ''Biina'' <small>Herrich-Schaeffer 1864</small>
* ''Napho'' <small>Hewitson 1849</small>
}}

'''尖尾褐環蝶屬'''（[[學名|學名]]：''Bia''）是[[閃蝶亞科|閃蝶亞科]][[大翅環蝶族|大翅環蝶族]]中的一個[[屬|屬]]。分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]。寄主植物為[[禾本科|禾本科]]植物。

== [[物種|物種]] ==
* [[尖尾褐環蝶|尖尾褐環蝶]] （''Bia seleucida''）<small>(Linnaeus, 1763)</small>
* ''Bia peruana'' <small>Röber, 1904</small>

== 參考 ==
* {{aut|Lamas, G.}}, 2004: Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera; Checklist: Part 4A; Hesperioidea-Papilionoidea.
* Brower AVZ. 2000. Phylogenetic relationships among the Nymphalidae (Lepidoptera) inferred from partial sequences of the wingless gene. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 267: 1201-1211.
* Casagrande, MM. 2004. Brassolini. In Lamas G ed. 2004. Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* Freitas AVL, Murray D, and Brown KS, Jr. 2002. Immatures, natural history and the systematic position of Bia actorion (Nymphalidae). J. Lepid. Soc. 56: 117-122.
* Miller LD. 1968. The higher classification, phylogeny and zoogeography of the Satyridae (Lepidoptera). Mem. Amer. Entomol. Soc. 24: 1-174.
* Peña C, Wahlberg N, Weingartner E, Kodandaramaiah U, Nylin S, Freitas AVL, and Brower AVZ. 2006. Higher level phylogeny of Satyrinae butterflies (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) based on DNA sequence data. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 40: 29-49.
* Vane-Wright RI, and Boppre M. 2004. Adult morphology and the higher classification of Bia Huebner (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Bonner zoologische Beitrage 53: 235-254.

{{Commons category|Bia}}
{{Wikispecies|Bia}}

{{眼蝶亞科}}

[[Category:尖尾褐環蝶屬|*]]
[[Category:大翅環蝶族|Category:大翅環蝶族]]


{{butterfly-stub}}