{{speciesbox
| fossil_range = 早[[白垩纪|白垩纪]]，{{fossilrange|112}}
| image =
| image_caption = 
| taxon = Dryosaurus grandis
| display_parents = 2
| subdivision_ranks = 种
| authority = Lull,1911
| synonyms =
* †近亲[[似鸟龙|似鸟龙]] ''Ornithomimus affinis'' <small>Gilmore, 1920</small>
* †近亲[[古老腔龙|腔龙]] ''Coelosaurus affinis'' <small>(Gilmore, 1920)</small>
}}
'''大橡树龙'''（[[学名|学名]]：{{lang|la|"''Dryosaurus''" ''grandis''}}）是一[[种|种]][[无资格名称|无效的]][[似鸟龙类|似鸟龙类]]，化石发现于[[马里兰州|马里兰州]]的{{link-en|阿隆德组|Arundel Formation}}。<ref name="dryosaurusgrandis"/>

==分类==
{{link-en|理查德·斯万·卢尔|Richard Swann Lull}}为来自阿隆德组的腿骨碎片建立种名大[[橡树龙|橡树龙]]（''Dryosaurus grandis''），化石包括趾骨和距骨，它们以前被划为兽脚类异特龙属的一个物种，间型[[异特龙|异特龙]]（''"Allosaurus" medius'' Marsh, 1888）。<ref name="dryosaurusgrandis">Lull, R.S. 1911. Systematic paleontology of the Lower Cretaceous deposits of Maryland: Vertebrata. Maryland Geological Survey: Lower Cretaceous 183-211.</ref>查尔斯·吉尔摩（1920年）将大橡树龙归入似鸟龙属，这使得卢尔的名字再次被大似鸟龙（''Ornithomimus grandis'' Marsh, 1890）所占据，并要求改名为近亲似鸟龙（''Ornithomimus affinis''）。<ref>Gilmore, C.W.. 1920. Osteology of the carnivorous Dinosauria in the United States National Museum, with special reference to the genera Antrodemus (Allosaurus) and Ceratosaurus. Bulletin of the United States National Museum 110:1-154.</ref>然而，大橡树龙的[[正模标本|正模标本]]来自[[蒙大拿州|蒙大拿州]]的{{link-en|Eagle砂岩|Eagle Sandstone}}，被认为已经丢失，因此吉尔摩的行为是不必要的。.<ref>Osborn, H.F. (1916). "Skeletal adaptations of ''Ornitholestes, Struthiomimus, Tyrannosaurus''." ''Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History'', '''35'''(43), 733-771.</ref>马修和布朗（1922年）将它分配给[[古老腔龙|腔龙属]]，并改名为近亲腔龙（''Coelosaurus. affinis''）。<ref>Matthew, W.D. and B. Brown. 1922. The family Deinodontidae, with notice of a new genus from the Cretaceous of Alberta. Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History 46(6):367-385.</ref>

在1972年对北美似鸟龙类的评估中，戴尔·罗素（1972年）注意到它类似于亚洲的[[古似鸟龙|古似鸟龙]]，具有弯曲的足爪，因此将其改为近亲古似鸟龙（''Archaeornithomimus affinis''）。史密斯和加尔东（1990年）声称，阿隆德组分类群的分类不能超出兽脚类的范围。<ref>Smith and Galton, 1990. Osteology of Archaeornithomimus asiaticus (Upper Cretaceous, Iren Dabasu Formation, People's Republic of China). Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology.</ref>然而，切斯·布朗斯坦2016年的一篇论文证实了吉尔摩将“大橡树龙”分配给似鸟龙类的决定是正确的，并指出阿隆德组材料与[[似金娜里龙|似金娜里龙]]和[[内德科尔伯特龙|内德科尔伯特龙]]在脚部特征上的相似性。<ref>Brownstein CD. (2016) Redescription of Arundel formation Ornithomimosaur material and a reinterpretation of Nedcolbertia justinhofmanni as an “Ostrich Dinosaur”: Biogeographic implications. PeerJ Preprints 4:e2308v1 https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.preprints.2308v1</ref>

==参考文献==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:下白堊紀恐龍|Category:下白堊紀恐龍]]
[[Category:北美洲恐龍|Category:北美洲恐龍]]
[[Category:似鳥龍下目|Category:似鳥龍下目]]