{{NoteTA|G1=單位}}{{NoteTA
| G1 = 單位
}}
'''毫升'''是[[容量|容量]]計量單位，符號為'''mL'''（為milliliter縮寫，音/{{IPA|ˈmɪl·əˌli·t̬·ər}}/，縮寫音/{{IPA|mil}}/），又稱'''公撮'''，相當於'''立方厘米'''（'''cubic centimeter'''，簡稱 '''cc'''）。毫升本身不是[[國際單位制|國際單位制]](SI)單位，而是接受與SI合併使用的非SI單位。

==換算==
*1[[立方厘米|立方厘米]]＝0.001[[立方分米|立方分米]]
*1毫升＝0.001[[公升|公升]]
*1[[公升|毫升]]＝1立方厘米
*1公升=1000毫升
*1[[公升|公升]]＝1000立方厘米=1立方分米
*1[[公升|微升]]＝1立方毫米
*1毫升=1000[[微升|微升]]

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
* {{cite web |author=Bureau International des Poids et Mesures |title=The International System of Units (SI) |year=2006 |url=http://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/si_brochure_8_en.pdf |format=PDF |accessdate=2008-08-18 |archive-date=2013-11-05 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131105051930/http://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/si_brochure_8_en.pdf |dead-url=no }}
* Bureau International des Poids et Mesures. (2006). [http://www.bipm.org/en/si/si_brochure/ "The International System of Units (SI)"] (on-line browser):
**[https://web.archive.org/web/20091001100650/http://www.bipm.org/en/si/si_brochure/chapter4/table6.html Table 6] (Non-SI units accepted for use with the International System). Retrieved 2008-08-24
* {{cite web|author=National Institute of Standards and Technology |title=Appendix C: General tables of units of measurement |work=NIST Handbook 44: Specifications, Tolerances, and Other Technical Requirements for Weighing and Measuring Devices |publisher=National Institute of Standards and Technology |date=11 November 2000 |url=http://ts.nist.gov/WeightsAndMeasures/Publications/appxc.cfm#4e |accessdate=2006-10-09 |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20111210164956/http://ts.nist.gov/weightsandmeasures/publications/appxc.cfm |archivedate=10 December 2011 }}
* National Institute of Standards and Technology. (December 2003). [https://web.archive.org/web/20041111030930/http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Units/index.html ''The NIST Reference on Constants, Units, and Uncertainty: International System of Units (SI)''] (web site):
** [http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Units/units.html ''Note on SI units''] {{Wayback|url=http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Units/units.html |date=20161231025827 }}. Retrieved 2008-08-24.
** [http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Units/outside.html ''Recommending uppercase letter L''] {{Wayback|url=http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Units/outside.html |date=20091031222735 }}. Retrieved 2008-08-24.
* Taylor, B.N. and Thompson, A. (Eds.). (2008a). [http://physics.nist.gov/Pubs/SP330/sp330.pdf ''The International System of Units (SI)''] {{Wayback|url=http://physics.nist.gov/Pubs/SP330/sp330.pdf |date=20160603215953 }}. United States version of the English text of the eighth edition (2006) of the International Bureau of Weights and Measures publication ''Le Système International d’ Unités (SI)'' (Special Publication 330). Gaithersburg, MD: National Institute of Standards and Technology. Retrieved 2008-08-18.
* Taylor, B.N. and Thompson, A. (2008b). [http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/pdf/sp811.pdf ''Guide for the Use of the International System of Units''] {{Wayback|url=http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/pdf/sp811.pdf |date=20160603203340 }} (Special Publication 811). Gaithersburg, MD: National Institute of Standards and Technology. Retrieved 2008-08-23.
* Turner, J. (Deputy Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology). (16 May 2008).[https://web.archive.org/web/20090326162948/http://ts.nist.gov/WeightsAndMeasures/Metric/upload/FRN_Vol_73_No_96_16May2008_SI_Interpretation.pdf "Interpretation of the International System of Units (the Metric System of Measurement) for the United States"]. ''Federal Register'' Vol. 73, No. 96, p. 28432-3.
* UK National Physical Laboratory. [http://www.npl.co.uk/reference/measurement-units/non-si-units/ Non-SI Units] {{Wayback|url=http://www.npl.co.uk/reference/measurement-units/non-si-units/ |date=20180612101154 }}
{{refend}}

{{SI单位导航框}}
{{體積單位}}

[[Category:容積單位|Category:容積單位]]

[[cs:Mililitr|cs:Mililitr]]
[[en:Millilitre|en:Millilitre]]
[[sv:Milliliter|sv:Milliliter]]