{{Expand language|1=en|time=2020-10-14T13:03:08+00:00}}
'''可互換零件'''是指一些[[規格化|規格]]和用途都相同的[[零件|零件]]。可互换零件是依照技术规格而制造，以确保几乎完全相同，而且无需任何定制便能够与同类组件匹配。这种互换性令设备的安裝和维修难度降低、耗时缩短，同时最大限度地降低了对安裝或维修人员的技能要求。美国发明家[[伊莱·惠特尼|伊莱·惠特尼]]是早起提出这一概念的人之一。

零件的互换性是通过结合[[机械加工|机械加工]]操作的一些创新和改进以及一些[[机床|机床]]的发明实现的，如滑架车床、螺纹切削车床、转塔车床、铣床和金属刨床。除此之外，用于机床引导夹具的发明也是至关重要的，这些夹具可以将工件固定在适当位置，用于检查成品零件的精度。<ref name =Hounshell-1984>{{citation
 | last = Hounshell
 | first = David A.
 | year = 1984
 | author-link= David A. Hounshell
 | title = From the American System to Mass Production, 1800–1932: The Development of Manufacturing Technology in the United States
 | publisher = Johns Hopkins University Press
 | location = Baltimore, Maryland
 | isbn = 978-0-8018-2975-8
 | lccn = 83016269
 | oclc = 1104810110 }}</ref>随着电气化时代的到来，生产效率的提高，大规模生产可互换零件变得更加容易。<ref>{{Citation |title=Edison as I Know Him |last1=Ford |first1=Henry |author-link=Henry Ford |last2=Crowther |first2=Samuel |year=1930 |publisher=Cosmopolitan Book Company |location=New York |pages=30 |url=http://www.atomicacreative.com/images/ACG_EdisonAsIKnowHim.pdf |access-date=2011-09-29 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20121011222306/http://www.atomicacreative.com/images/ACG_EdisonAsIKnowHim.pdf |archive-date=2012-10-11 |url-status=dead }}</ref>而在现代社会，随着数控机床的普及，生产可互换零件变得更加容易。
==首次使用==
人类最早使用可互换零件的历史可追溯到两千年前的[[迦太基|迦太基]]，在[[第一次布匿战争|第一次布匿战争]]中就得到了应用。迦太基拥有强大的海军，其船只有标准化可互换零件，甚至带有类似于“标签A到插槽B”的装配说明。<ref>[http://www.mmdtkw.org/ALRIAncRomUnit4Slides.html Rome, Carthage, and the Punic Wars] {{Wayback|url=http://www.mmdtkw.org/ALRIAncRomUnit4Slides.html |date=20210819052059 }}<br/>Meanwhile Carthage was mass producing warships. And that's not an exaggeration either about numbers or about shipbuilding methods; Carthaginian warships were built up of standard interchangeable parts. We know this not only from contemporary accounts, but also from recovered Carthaginian ships like the half of a Carthaginian ship shown in (c), above, that was recovered off the coast of Marsala at the western tip of Sicily; it was brand new when it was sunk by the Romans, and it still retains marks giving assembly instructions ("tab a into slot b", etc.) Other recovered ships had identical parts.</ref>

==参考文献==
{{reflist}}
[[Category:互操作性|Category:互操作性]]
[[Category:工業設計|Category:工業設計]]
[[Category:製造業|Category:製造業]]
[[Category:槍械零件|Category:槍械零件]]