'''工业导向型教育'''（[[英文|英文]]：'''{{lang|en|Industry Oriented Education}}'''），为一种教育模式，旨在直接把工业上的课题搬到课堂，通过课题的讨论，引进必要的理论和基础（例如[[数学|数学]]）。
其起源于[[职业教育|职业教育]]。直到2004年，工业导向型教育应用于非学位教育。 2004年的亚太工业与教育合作研讨会上，工业导向型教育被应用在[[学士学位|学士学位]]的教育随后应用在[[硕士学位|硕士学位]]的教育（参考以下[[戚子明|戚子明]]教授的一系列相关论文）。

==例证==

工业导向型教育陆续在新西兰的国立理工学院施行。举例，在新西兰的理工学院提供了一个工程技术学士学位, 与综合性大学提供的工程学学士比较，其区别在于课程重点和职业选择上的不同。虽然综合性大学工科学士学位的毕业生有明确的职业工程师的职业选择，并且以工程硕士和博士学位进一步深造途径, 理工学院的工程技术学士毕业生在工作市场上定义为 一般的"工程技术人员"，并没有定义明确的进一步深造途径。因此, 理工学院的工科本科毕业生的进一步学习途径或专业发展, 可以从行业的需求逻辑上找到。
由于在新西兰理工学院的本科和硕士学位中引入了工业导向教育, 最近一些研究与发展项目突显与综合性大学的不同。根据行业需求, 在但尼丁的理工学院把原有的传统的企业设计硕士学位的招生范围延伸到工程和技术领域, 以便于培养高科技产品设计师。所以理工学院的工程技术学士毕业生, 可以找到自己的研究生深造途径。

== 參考文獻 ==
*Qi, Z. & Findlay，J. (2015).  Student Project Development based on Industry Oriented Learning: Design of a Sustainable Standalone House. The 2015 Annual Conference of the Australasian Association for Engineering Education (AAEE2015), Geelong, Australia. 
*Qi, Z. (2015).  Applying mathematics knowledge to industry orientated problems in classroom teaching [External Report] Ako Aotearoa Southern Hub, May 2015.  https://web.archive.org/web/20160305004249/https://akoaotearoa.ac.nz/download/ng/file/group-7/applying-mathematics-knowledge-to-industry-orientated-problems-in-classroom-teaching.pdf 
*Qi, Z., Terpstra, C., Findlay, J. (2014). A Master Degree Program Development for the Study Pathways from Bachelor of Engineering Technology The 44th Annual Frontiers in Education (FIE) Conference, Madrid, Spain. 
*Qi, Z. (2014). An industry oriented course development for the Master of Engineering, the 2014 Annual Conference of the Australasian Association for Engineering Education (AAEE2014), Wellington, New Zealand 
*Louie, K., Robson, D, Cook, F. Hogan, D and Qi, Z. (2014). An industry oriented math teaching strategy for the Metro Group BEngTech program the 2014 Annual Conference of the Australasian Association for Engineering Education (AAEE2014), Wellington, New Zealand 
*Lee, W. and Qi, Z. (2014). Preliminary Evaluation of an Experimental Bachelor Program for Skilled Students the 2014 Annual Conference of the Australasian Association for Engineering Education (AAEE2014), Wellington, New Zealand 
*Finnie, D., Fersterer, C., Qi, Z. and Terpstra, C. (2014). A student project development for multidisciplinary programs at Otago Polytechnic the 2014 Annual Conference of the Australasian Association for Engineering Education (AAEE2014), Wellington, New Zealand 
*Qi, Z. (2009) Work in Progress: A Course Design for a Master of Design Program Linked to the Electronic and Computer Engineering Graduates, the 39th Annual Frontiers in Education (FIE) Conference,18 October-21 October, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
*Qi, Z. (2008) Work in Progress: A Master of Design Program Collaborating with Electronic Engineering and Technology, the 38th Annual Frontiers in Education (FIE) Conference, 22 October-25 October, New York, USA. 
*Qi, Z. (2008) Industry Oriented Teaching and Learning Strategies Applied to Traditional Engineering Undergraduate Program, in the 38th Annual Frontiers in Education (FIE) Conference, 22 October-25 October, New York, USA.
*Qi, Z., & Cannan, J. (2007) An Industrial Oriented and multi-discipline undergraduate degree, in The 15th World Conference on Cooperative Education, 26 June-29 June, Singapore.
*Qi, Z., & Cannan, J. (2007) Industrial Oriented Project based learning: Exploring a model for real world learning from the laboratory to the workplace, in The 15th World Conference on Cooperative Education, 26 June-29 June, Singapore. 
*Qi, Z., & Cannan, J. (2007). The Changing role of the Lecturer in Industry Orientated Education, Tenth Annual NZACE Conference. Rotorua, 19 April-20 April, Rotorua, New Zealand.
*Qi, Z., & Cannan, J. (2006). Engineering Mathematics in Industrial Orientated Teaching and Learning, Proceedings of WACE Asia-Pacific Regional Conference 2006. Shanghai: WACE Asia-Pacific Regional Conference, 26 June-28 June, Shanghai.
*Qi, Z., & Cannan, J. (2006). Student/Industry Project in Industrial Oriented Undergraduate Degree in Electro-technology. In R. K. Coll (Ed.), Conference Proceedings: New Zealand Association for Cooperative Education Annual Conference. Queenstown: NZACE. Paper presented at the NZACE, 27 April-28 April, Queenstown.
*Qi, Z., & Cannan, J. (2005). Engineering Mathematics teaching methodology in Bachelor of Applied Technology (Electro-technology). In I. Electronics New Zealand Conference (Ed.), 12th Electronics New Zealand Conference (pp. 225-230). Auckland: Electronics New Zealand Conference, Inc. Paper presented at the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Manukau Institute of Technology, 14 November-15 November, Auckland.
*Qi, Z., & Cannan, J. (2004). Industrial oriented teaching and learning strategies, 5th Asia Pacific Cooperative Education Conference. Auckland, New Zealand, 1 December-3 December, Auckland, New Zealand.

[[Category:教育|Category:教育]]