{{Infobox Union
|name = 工会联盟
|native_name=Trades Union Congress
|country = [[英格蘭|英格蘭]]和[[威爾士|威爾士]]
|affiliation = [[国际工会联合会|国际工会联合会]]
|members = 560萬（2016年）
|image = 
|founded = 1868年，[[曼徹斯特|曼徹斯特]]
|current =
|office = [[倫敦|倫敦]]
|people = [[弗朗西丝·奥格雷迪|弗朗西丝·奥格雷迪]]（秘書長）
|website = [http://www.tuc.org.uk/ www.tuc.org.uk]
|head =
|dissolved_date =
|dissolved_state =
|merged_into =
}}

'''工会联盟'''（{{lang-en|Trades Union Congress}}，缩写为TUC），也译作'''工會大會'''，是英國{{Link-en|全国工会中心|National trade union center}}，其主要由[[英格蘭和威爾斯|英格蘭和威爾斯]]的[[工會|工會]]組成。該组织往往被視為眾工會的代表，旗下包含有54個附屬工會、共約620萬位成員，其中又約有一半的人是{{Link-en|聯合工會|Unite the Union}}和{{Link-en|UNISON|UNISON}}成員。

== 參考文獻 ==
*Allen, V L. "The Re-Organization of the Trades Union Congress, 1918-1927," ''British Journal of Sociology'' (1960) 11#1 pp 14–43. [http://www.jstor.org/stable/587039 in JSTOR] {{Wayback|url=http://www.jstor.org/stable/587039 |date=20220512054638 }}
* Clegg, Hugh Armstrong, Alan Fox, and A.F. Thompson. ''A History of British Trade Unions since 1889, vol. 1, 1889-1910'' (Clarendon Press, 1964)
* Clegg, Hugh Armstrong. '' A History of British Trade Unions since 1889, vol. 2, 1911-1933'' (Oxford University Press, 1985); ''A History of British Trade Unions since 1889, vol. 3, 1934-1951'' (1994).
*Davis, W J. ''The British Trades Union Congress: History and Recollections'' (2 vols, 1910–16; reprint Garland, 1984)
* Dorfman, Gerald A. ''British Trade Unionism against the Trades Union Congress'' (London: Macmillan, 1983)
* Lovell, John, and B C. Roberts. ''A Short History of the T.U.C.'' (London: Macmillan, 1968)
* Martin, Ross M. ''TUC: The Growth of a Pressure Group 1868-1976'' (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1980)
* Musson, A E. ''Trade Union and Social History'' (London: Cass, 1974)
* Roberts, B C. ''The Trades Union Congress 1868-1921'' (Harvard University Press, 1958)
* Wrigley, Chris, ed. ''British Trade Unions, 1945-1995'' (Manchester University Press, 1997)
* ''The History of the TUC (Trades Union Congress) 1868-1968: A pictorial Survey of a Social Revolution — Illustrated with Contemporary Prints, Documents and Photographs edited by Lionel Birch''; published in large paperback by Hamlyn/General Council of Trade Union Congress in 1968 with a foreword by George Woodcock

== 外部連結 ==
{{Commons category|Trades Union Congress}}
* {{official website|http://www.tuc.org.uk/}}
* [http://dscalm.warwick.ac.uk/DServe/dserve.exe?dsqIni=DServeadv.ini&dsqApp=Archive&dsqCmd=Show.tcl&dsqDb=Catalog&dsqPos=10&dsqSearch=%28Reference_Code%3D%27tuc%27%29 Catalogue of the TUC archives] {{Wayback|url=http://dscalm.warwick.ac.uk/DServe/dserve.exe?dsqIni=DServeadv.ini&dsqApp=Archive&dsqCmd=Show.tcl&dsqDb=Catalog&dsqPos=10&dsqSearch=%28Reference_Code%3D%27tuc%27%29 |date=20150606142556 }}, held at the [[Modern_Records_Centre,_University_of_Warwick|Modern Records Centre, University of Warwick]]
* [http://www.worksmart.org.uk/unionfinder TUC unionfinder tool to find unions by sector or company] {{Wayback|url=http://www.worksmart.org.uk/unionfinder |date=20150407164506 }}
* [http://www.unionhistory.info/ The Union Makes Us Strong: TUC History Online] {{Wayback|url=http://www.unionhistory.info/ |date=20210125000811 }}
* [http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/services/library/mrc/explorefurther/digital/scw/more/tuc "The Trades Union Congress, 1936-1939: Its history and organisation", Modern Records Centre, University of Warwick] {{Wayback|url=http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/services/library/mrc/explorefurther/digital/scw/more/tuc |date=20180828023455 }}
* [http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/services/library/mrc/explorefurther/digital/scw "Trabajadores: The Spanish Civil War through the eyes of organised labour"] {{Wayback|url=http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/services/library/mrc/explorefurther/digital/scw |date=20200422070735 }}, a digitised collection of more than 13,000 pages of documents from the archives of the TUC held in the [[Modern_Records_Centre,_University_of_Warwick|Modern Records Centre, University of Warwick]]
* [http://www.higherlearningatwork.org/ Higher Learning at Work - TUC unionlearn's guide to learning at work ] {{Wayback|url=http://www.higherlearningatwork.org/ |date=20181229035202 }}
* [http://strongerunions.org/ Stronger Unions - The TUC organising team's blog ] {{Wayback|url=http://strongerunions.org/ |date=20210211062105 }}


[[Category:国际工会联合会成员|Category:国际工会联合会成员]]
[[Category:倫敦組織|Category:倫敦組織]]
[[Category:英國工會|Category:英國工會]]
[[Category:1868年英國建立|Category:1868年英國建立]]