{{NoteTA
|G1=Butterfly
}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Phyciodes
| authority = Hübner, [1819]
| image = Phaon Crescent (Phyciodes phaon) (6131280512).jpg
| image_caption = [[繁漆蛺蝶|繁漆蛺蝶]]<br />''Phyciodes phaon''
| type_species = [[漆蛺蝶|漆蛺蝶]]<br />''Papilio cocyta''
| type_species_authority = Cramer, [1777]
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共11種，詳見正文。
| synonyms =
}}

'''漆蛺蝶屬'''（學名：'''''Phyciodes'''''）是[[蛺蝶亞科|蛺蝶亞科]][[網蛺蝶族|網蛺蝶族]]中的一個[[屬|屬]]。物種主要分佈於[[新北界|新北界]]，有很多未知的雜交種<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2008. Phyciodes Hübner 1819. Version 21 January 2008 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Phyciodes/70589/2008.01.21 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Phyciodes/70589/2008.01.21 |date=20191201004636 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}</ref>。Wahlberg et al. (2003)和Wahlberg, Freitas(2007)的研究指出[[貝茨漆蛺蝶|貝茨漆蛺蝶]]、[[漆蛺蝶|漆蛺蝶]]、[[弦月漆蛺蝶|弦月漆蛺蝶]]和''T. pulchella''的DNA序列類近，不能區分<ref>Wahlberg N, Oliveira R, and Scott JA. 2003. Phylogenetic relationships of Phyciodes butterfly species (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae): complex mtDNA variation and species delimitations. Syst. Ent. 28: 1-17.</ref><ref>Wahlberg, N. & Freitas, A. V. 2007 Colonization of and radiation in South America by butterflies in the subtribe Phyciodina (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 44, 1257-1272.</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* ''[[Tegosa_graphica|Tegosa graphica]]''
** 維斯漆蛺蝶 ''P. g. vesta''
* [[綉漆蛺蝶|綉漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa picta''
* ''[[Tegosa_pallescens|Tegosa pallescens]]''
* [[繁漆蛺蝶|繁漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa phaon''
* [[橙紋漆蛺蝶|橙紋漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa orseis''
* [[鼠漆蛺蝶|鼠漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa mylitta''
* [[淡白漆蛺蝶|淡白漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa pallida''
* [[弦月漆蛺蝶|弦月漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa tharos'' = 摩爾漆蛺蝶 ''T. morpheus''
* [[貝茨漆蛺蝶|貝茨漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa batesii''
* [[漆蛺蝶|漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa cocyta''
* [[美麗漆蛺蝶|美麗漆蛺蝶]] ''Tegosa pulchella''
** ''T. p. pulchella'' = 褐緣漆蛺蝶 ''P. campestris''

== 參考文獻 ==
{{reflist}}
* Higgins LG. 1981. A revision of Phyciodes Hubner and related genera, with a review of the classification of the Melitaeinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Bulletin of the British Museum (Natural History) 43: 77-243.
* Lamas G ed. 2004. Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

{{Commons category|  Phyciodes}}

{{蛺蝶亞科}}

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_1819年描述的分类群|Q]]
[[Category:網蛺蝶族|Q]]
[[Category:漆蛺蝶屬|*]]