'''施事'''（{{lang|en|agent}}），也称'''主事'''，在语义学上是[[语义角色|语义角色]]的一种，指主动的、有意识的动作发出者。<ref>{{cite book|last=Kroeger|first=Paul|title=Analyzing Grammar: An Introduction|url=https://archive.org/details/analyzinggrammar00kroe_288|year=2005|publisher=Cambridge University Press|location=Cambridge|isbn=978-0-521-01653-7|pages=[https://archive.org/details/analyzinggrammar00kroe_288/page/n73 54]}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|url=http://www.keel.ut.ee/sites/default/files/www_ut/lectures_on_linguistic_complexity.pdf|title=Lectures on linguistic  complexity|date=|last=Dahl|first=Östen|publisher=|access-date=|website=UNIVERSITY of TARTU, Institute of Estonian and General Linguistics|archive-date=2020-05-19|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200519141451/https://www.keel.ut.ee/sites/default/files/www_ut/lectures_on_linguistic_complexity.pdf|dead-url=no}}</ref><ref>Thomas E. Payne. [http://pages.uoregon.edu/tpayne/EG595/HO-Srs-and-GRs.pdf Summary of Semantic Roles and Grammatical Relations] {{Wayback|url=http://pages.uoregon.edu/tpayne/EG595/HO-Srs-and-GRs.pdf |date=20200121161230 }}, 19 October 2007</ref>這個詞語來自[[拉丁語|拉丁語]]動詞''agere''的[[現在分詞|現在分詞]]''agens''，為「做」（to do）或「使得」（to make），而''agentis''為「一個人做」。

==理論==
施事通常在被标在[[名词|名词]][[短语|短语]](Noun phrase/NP)当中标识中主动地、有意识地实施谓语[[中心词|中心词]]（Head）的[[论元|论元]]上。例如 ''Jack kicked the ball''（杰克踢球），''Jack'' 是施事而 ''ball'' 是[[受事|受事]]（Patient）。施事常常会和主格重合，但二者不能完全等同。例如[[日語|日語]]一般会以主格助词“{{lang|ja|が}}”''ga'' 来标记施事论元，但被动句中施事论元会降格为[[斜格|斜格]]“{{lang|ja|に}}”''ni''。（有时也会出现不标示格的情况，日语称为“裸格”（{{lang|ja|ハダカ格}}）<ref name=tarou_takahashi>{{cite book|last=Takahashi|first=Tarou, et al.|title=A Japanese Grammar 4th Edition|year=2010|publisher=Hitsuji Shobou|location=Japan|isbn=978-4-89476-244-2|page=27}}</ref>。） [[英語|现代英语]]没有标示施事的語法手段，虽然有一类{{tsl|en|Agent noun|施事词}}，如 ''user'' 或 ''prosecutor''，会加上 ''-er''、''-or'' 等带有施事义的后缀，但也不代表它一定拥有施事语义角色。如 ''Jack kicked the runner'' 当中，''runner'' 就是受事而非施事。
<!--
The notion of [[Agency_(philosophy)|agency]] is easy to grasp intuitively but notoriously difficult to define: typical qualities that a grammatical agent often has are that it has [[volition_(linguistics)|volition]], is sentient or perceives, causes a change of state, or moves. The linguist [[David_Dowty|David Dowty]] included these qualities in his definition of a Proto-Agent, and proposed that the nominal with the most elements of the Proto-Agent and the fewest elements of the Proto-Patient tends to be treated as the agent in a sentence.<ref>Dowty, David. 1991. "Thematic proto-roles and argument selection", ''Language'', 67.3:547-619</ref> This solves problems that most semanticists have with deciding on the number and quality of thematic roles. For example, in the sentence ''His energy surprised everyone'', ''His energy'' is the agent, even though it does not have most of the typical agent-like qualities such as perception, movement, or volition. Even Dowty's solution fails for verbs expressing relationships in time:

(1) April precedes May.     vs:      (2) May follows April.

Here what is agent and what is patient must be specified for each individual verb.

The grammatical agent is often confused with the [[subject_(grammar)|subject]], but these two notions are quite distinct: the former is based explicitly on its relationship to the action or event expressed by the [[verb|verb]], whereas the latter is based on the [[information_flow|flow of information]], word order, and importance to the sentence. In a sentence such as "The boy kicked the ball", "the boy" is the agent ''and'' the subject. However, when the sentence is rendered in the [[passive_voice|passive voice]], "The ball was kicked by the boy", "the ball" is the grammatical subject, but "the boy" is still the agent. Many sentences in English and other [[Indo-European_languages|Indo-European languages]] have the agent as subject.

The use of some [[transitive_verbs|transitive verbs]] denoting strictly reciprocal events may involve a conflation of agent and subject. In the sentence "John met Sylvia", for example, though both "John" and "Sylvia" would equally meet Dowty's definition of a Proto-Agent, the co-agent "Sylvia" is downgraded to patient because it is the direct object of the sentence.<ref>Givóm, Tom. 2001. ''Syntax: An Introduction. Volume 1''. John Benjamins Publishing Company. p. 131.</ref>
-->

==參見== 
*[[主事後綴|主事後綴]](Agentive suffix)
*[[活格語言|活格語言]](Active–stative language/Agentive case)
*[[英語被動語態|英語被動語態]](English passive voice)
*[[被動語態|被動語態]](Passive voice)
*[[受事_(語法)|受事 (語法)]](Patient (grammar))

==註釋==
{{Reflist}}

==外部連結==
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20190217071819/http://www.memidex.com/agent+grammar agent (grammar)]

[[Category:主題角色|Category:主題角色]]
[[Category:語法範疇|Category:語法範疇]]