{{noteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Italic title}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Pirascca
| authority = Hall & Willmott, 1996
| image = Cramer&Stoll-uitlandsche kapellen vol. 1- plate 083.jpg
| image_caption = [[絲蜆蝶|絲蜆蝶]] (右上)<br />''Pirascca sagaris''
| type_species = [[絲蜆蝶|絲蜆蝶]]<br />''Papilio sagaris''
| type_species_authority = Cramer, 1775
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共14種，詳閱正文。
| synonyms =
}}

'''''Pirascca'''''是[[蜆蝶科|蜆蝶科]][[蜆蝶亞科|蜆蝶亞科]][[樹蜆蝶族|樹蜆蝶族]]裡的一個屬，尚無正式中文學名命名。共有14個物種，分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]<ref>Tree of Life Web Project. 2008. Pirascca J. Hall & Willmott 1996. Version 05 June 2008 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Pirascca/105306/2008.06.05 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Pirascca/105306/2008.06.05 |date=20161025235013 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }} {{en}}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* [[阿絲蜆蝶|阿絲蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca apolecta''
* [[阿布絲蜆蝶|阿布絲蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca arbuscula''
** 指名亞種 ''P. a. arbuscula'' = 織密樹蜆蝶 ''Symmachia histrica''
* [[緙絲蜆蝶|緙絲蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca crocostigma''
* [[葉番蜆蝶|葉番蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca iasis''
** = 拉絲蜆蝶 ''S. iasis''
** = 短線斜黃蜆蝶 ''P. brevilinea''
* ''Pirascca interrupta''
* ''Pirascca patriciae''
* [[紫紅絲蜆蝶|紫紅絲蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca phoenicura''
* [[冥王絲蜆蝶|冥王絲蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca pluto''
* ''Pirascca polemistes''
* ''Pirascca pujarnii''
* [[絲蜆蝶|絲蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca sagaris''
** 指名亞種 ''p. s. sagaris'' = 素絲蜆蝶 ''Stichelia simpla''
* [[斯提番蜆蝶|斯提番蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca sticheli''
* [[刷絲蜆蝶|刷絲蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca suapure''
* [[提絲蜆蝶|提絲蜆蝶]] ''Pirascca tyriotes''
<!--
== 圖集 ==
-->

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Commons category| Pirascca}}
* Hall JPW and KR Willmott. 1996. Systematics of the riodinid tribe Symmachiini, with the description of a new genus and five new species from Ecuador, Venezuela and Brazil (Lepidoptera: Riodinidae). Lambillionea 96: 637-658.
* Lamas G ed. 2004. Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* Espeland, M., Hall, J. P., DeVries, P. J., Lees, D. C., Cornwall, M., Hsu, Y. F., ... & Salzman, S. 2015. Ancient Neotropical origin and recent recolonisation: Phylogeny, biogeography and diversification of the Riodinidae (Lepidoptera: Papilionoidea). Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 93, 296-306. {{en}}
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

== 外部連結 ==
* [http://ftp.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/riodinidae/pirascca/ Pirascca]{{Wayback|url=http://ftp.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/riodinidae/pirascca/ |date=20161025174224 }} - funet.fi

{{蜆蝶亞科}}
{{Taxonbar}}
[[Category:Pirascca|*]]
[[Category:樹蜆蝶族|Category:樹蜆蝶族]]
[[Category:_1996年描述的分类群|Category: 1996年描述的分类群]]