{{Infobox person
|name        = 爱德华·珀西瓦尔·莱特
|image       = Edward-percival-wright.jpg
|image_size  = 200px
|caption     = 
|birth_date  = 1834年
|birth_place = [[唐尼布鲁克|唐尼布鲁克]]
|death_date  = 1910年
|death_place = 
|occupation  = 眼外科医生、植物学家及动物学家
}}

'''爱德华·珀西瓦尔·莱特'''（'''Edward Percival Wright'''，{{bd|1834年||1910年||}}）为[[爱尔兰|爱尔兰]]眼外科医生、植物学家及动物学家。

== 著作 ==
{{refbegin}}
* (1855) Catalogue of British Mollusca. ''Natural History Review Society'' (Proceedings of Societies)  2: 69-85.
* (1859) Notes on the Irish nudibranchiata. ''Natural History Review Society'' (Proceedings of Societies) 6: 86-88.
* (1859) with Greene, J.R. 1859 Report on the marine fauna of the south and west coasts of Ireland. ''Report for the British Association for the Advancement of Science'' : 176-181
* (1860) Wright, E.P. 1860 Notes on the Irish nudibranchiata. ''Proceedings of the Natural History Society of Dublin'' 2: 135-137.
* (1864) Translation of F. C. Donders's ''The Pathogeny of Squint'' (1864)
* (1865) A modification of Liebreich's ophthalmoscope in ?
* (1865) Notes on ''Colias edusa''. ''Proceedings of the Dublin Natural History Society'' 5: 7-8.
* (1866) with Huxley, T. H.  On a collection of fossils from the Jarrow Colliery, Kilkenny ''Geological Magazine'', v. 3, p. 165-171.
* (1867) with Huxley,T.H. On a Collection of Fossil Vertebrata from the Jarrow Colliery County Kilkenny Ireland. ''Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy'' Vol. 24 - Science.
* (1867) Remarks on freshwater rhizopods ''Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science'', new ser., v. 7, p. 174-175. 
* (1868) Notes on the bats of the Seychelles group of islands. ''Annals and Magazine of Natural History''.
* (1868) Notes on Irish sponges. ''Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy'' 10: 221-228.
* (1870). Six months at the Seychelles. ''Spicilegia Zoologica, Dublin'' 1, 64–65.
* (1872) English translation and revision of Louis Figuier ''The ocean world''. New York: D. Appleton.(Louis Figuier was a prolific writer on scientific and technological matters for the general public. Much of the scientific information in the novels of Jules Verne was taken from his work. Wright's translations earned substantial royalties).
* (1875) English translation and revision of Louis Figuier ''Mammalia, Their Various Forms and Habits'' London, Cassell & Company, Ltd. Reprinted until 1892.
* (1877). On a new genus and species of sponge ''Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy'', ser. 2, v. 2, p. 754-757, pl. 40. 
* (1889) with Studer, T. ''Report on the Alcyonaria -Voyage of H.M.S. Challenger Zoology'' 31, i–lxxvii + 1.– 314.
* (1896) The herbarium of Trinity College, a retrospect ''Notes from the Botanical School of Trinity College, Dublin'', 1, 1–14
{{refend}}

{{botanist|E.P.Wright|爱德华·珀西瓦尔·莱特}}

== 参考文献 ==
{{reflist}}
{{refbegin}}
*Foster, J. W. and Chesney, H. C. G (eds.), 1977. ''Nature in Ireland: A Scientific and Cultural History''. Lilliput Press. ISBN 0-7735-1817-7. 
* McDowell, R.B. and  Webb,D.A.  ''Trinity College, Dublin, 1592–1952: an academic history''. 
* Webb, D.A. 1991 The herbarium of Trinity College, Dublin its history and contents ''Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society'' 106 , 295–327.
*''Irish Naturalist'', 19 (1910), 61–3. Portrait.
{{refend}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Wright, Edward Percival}}

[[Category:爱尔兰植物学家|Category:爱尔兰植物学家]]
[[Category:爱尔兰动物学家|Category:爱尔兰动物学家]]