{{Infobox Officeholder
| name          = 富田鐵之助
| image         = Tomita Tetsunosuke.jpg
| office        = [[日本银行|日本银行总裁]]
| term          = 1888–1889
| predecessor   = [[吉原重俊|吉原重俊]] 
| successor      = [[川田小一郎|川田小一郎]] 
| office1       = [[东京都知事|东京都知事]] 
| term1         = 1891–1893
| predecessor1  = [[蜂须贺茂韶|蜂须贺茂韶]] 
| successor1    = [[三浦安|三浦安]]
| birth_date    =  {{Birth date|1835|12|05}}
| birth_place   = {{JAP}}[[仙台藩|仙台藩]]
| death_date    =  {{Death date and age|1916|02|27|1835|12|05}}
| death_place   ={{JAP}}
| nationality   = {{JAP}}
| other_names   =
| known_for     =
| occupation    = diplomat, banker, entrepreneur
}} 
'''富田铁之助'''（{{jpn|j=富田 鐵之助|hg=とみた てつのすけ|rm=Tomita Tetsunosuke}}，{{bd|1835年|12月5日|1916年|2月27日}}）是一位日本外交官，企业家，[[东京都知事|东京都知事]]，[[日本银行|日本银行]]总裁。<ref name="singer">Singer, Isidore. (1910). {{Google books|vWnPAAAAMAAJ|''International Insurance Encyclopedia,'' p. 650.|page=650}}</ref>

==生平==
1835年出生于[[日本|日本]][[仙台藩|仙台藩]]，<ref>Bank of Japan (BOJ), [http://www.boj.or.jp/en/about/outline/history/pre_gov/sousai02.htm/ 2nd Governor] {{Wayback|url=http://www.boj.or.jp/en/about/outline/history/pre_gov/sousai02.htm/ |date=20200224035208 }}</ref> 父亲是仙台藩重臣富田实保。1856年被派到[[江户|江户]]学习西洋[[炮术|炮术]]，后又拜师于[[胜海舟|胜海舟]]学习海事技术，1867年被选中陪伴[[胜海舟|胜海舟]]儿子一起赴美留学，在位于[[纽瓦克_(新泽西州)|纽瓦克 (新泽西州)]]惠特尼商学院学习[[经济学|经济学]]。[[戊辰战争|戊辰战争]]紧张时刻曾短暂回国，[[仙台藩|仙台藩]]获胜后又返回[[美国|美国]]。1872年帮助[[岩仓使节团|岩仓使节团]]访问美国。后被[[明治政府|明治政府]]任命为日本驻纽约总领事馆副领事。1874年正式回到[[日本|日本]]，经过[[福泽谕吉|福泽谕吉]]说媒与[[杉田玄白|杉田玄白]]曾孙[[杉田玄端|杉田玄端]]女儿结婚。后担任[[日本驻上海总领事馆|日本驻上海总领事馆]]总领事，1888年担任[[日本银行|日本银行]]总裁，1891年担任[[东京都知事|东京府知事]]。1893年卸任开始活跃于商界，后创建[[日本劝业银行|日本劝业银行]]，担任[[日本铁道|日本铁道]]理事。<ref>BOJ, [http://www.boj.or.jp/en/about/outline/history/pre_gov/index.htm/ List of Governors] {{Wayback|url=http://www.boj.or.jp/en/about/outline/history/pre_gov/index.htm/ |date=20110808165328 }}.</ref>

==参考来源==
{{Reflist}}

==外部链接==
* Hardacre, Helen. ''New directions in the study of Meiji Japan''. Brill. {{ISBN|9004107355}}
* Reischauer, Haru Matsukata. ''Samurai and Silk: Japanese and American Heritage'' (1986) Harvard University Press {{ISBN|067478801X}}
* Singer, Isidore. (1910). ''International Insurance Encyclopedia.'' New York: American Encyclopedic Library Assoc. [http://www.worldcat.org/title/international-insurance-encyclopedia/oclc/9233410  OCLC 9233410]

{{日本银行总裁}}
{{东京都知事}}
{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Tomita, Tetsunosuke}}
[[Category:日本银行总裁|Category:日本银行总裁]]
[[Category:日本外交官|Category:日本外交官]]
[[Category:东京府知事|Category:东京府知事]]
[[Category:东邦协会人物|Category:东邦协会人物]]
[[Category:仙台市出身人物|Category:仙台市出身人物]]
[[Category:日本官僚_(1868-1949)|Category:日本官僚 (1868-1949)]]
[[Category:贵族院敕选议员|Category:贵族院敕选议员]]
[[Category:瑞穗金融集团人物|Category:瑞穗金融集团人物]]
[[Category:仙台藩人物|Category:仙台藩人物]]
[[Category:日本駐美國大使|Category:日本駐美國大使]]
[[Category:日本驻上海总领事|Category:日本驻上海总领事]]
[[Category:貴族院敕選議員|Category:貴族院敕選議員]]