{{NoteTA
|G1=Games
|G2=IT
|1=zh-cn:虐杀原形;zh-hk:原型兵器;zh-tw:原型兵器;
}}
{{Infobox VG
| title = 原型兵器2
| english = Prototype 2
| image = Prototype 2.png
| caption = 
| developer = [[Radical_Entertainment|Radical Entertainment]]<ref name="IGNReview">{{cite news |title='Prototype' Review |url=http://ps3.ign.com/articles/993/993690p1.html |first=Erik |last=Brudvig |date=2009-06-10 |work=[[IGN|IGN]] |accessdate=2009-06-15}}</ref>
| publisher = [[美國動視|美國動視]]<ref name="IGNReview" />
| designer = Matt Armstrong
| series = [[原型兵器|原型兵器]]
| engine = Titanium 2.0<ref>{{cite news |title=PCGH interview with Radical Entertainment about 'Prototype' |url=http://www.pcgameshardware.com/aid,641131/PCGH-interview-with-Radical-Entertainment-about-PROTOTYPE/News |first=Falk |last=Jeromin |date=2008-04-22 |work=PCGamesHardware |accessdate=2009-06-17}}</ref>
| released = '''PlayStation 3 & Xbox 360'''<br />2012年4月24日<ref name="Prototype 2 dated for April 2012">{{cite web |url=http://www.newgamenetwork.com/news/3009/prototype-2-dated-for-april-2012 |title=Prototype 2 dated for April 2012 |date=July 20, 2011 |work=[[New_Game_Network|New Game Network]] |accessdate=2011-07-20}}</ref><br />'''Microsoft Windows'''{{Vgrelease|NA|2012年7月24日<ref name="shacknews.com">[http://www.shacknews.com/article/72233/prototype-2-radnet-limited-free-dlc-unveiled-pc-edition-delayed Prototype 2 'Radnet Edition' announced; PC ed – Shacknews.com – Video Game News, Trailers, Game Videos, and Files]. ''ShackNews.com'' (2012-01-31). Retrieved on 2012-02-06.</ref>|EU|2012年7月27日}}
| release = '''PlayStation 3 & Xbox 360'''<br />2012年4月24日<ref name="Prototype 2 dated for April 2012"/><br />'''Microsoft Windows'''{{Vgrelease|NA|2012年7月24日<ref name="shacknews.com"/>|EU|2012年7月27日}}
| modes = [[单人游戏|单人]] ([[第三人稱|第三人稱]])
| platforms = [[Microsoft_Windows|Microsoft Windows]]<br />[[PlayStation_3|PlayStation 3]]<br />[[Xbox_360|Xbox 360]]
}}
《'''原型兵器2'''》（{{lang-en|''Prototype 2''}}）是Radical Entertainment公司製作的一款沙盒型科幻自由[[動作冒險遊戲|動作冒險遊戲]]。遊戲在2012年4月24日發佈，是Radical Entertainment公司於2009年製作的遊戲《原型兵器》的續集，由美國動視發行。<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://store.steampowered.com/agecheck/app/115320/?snr=1_7_7_230_150_8 |title=Steam 上的 Prototype 2 |publisher=Steam |language=en, zh-Hans |accessdate=2016-10-18 }}</ref>

與[[虐杀原形|前作]]不同的是，遊戲的主角是詹姆斯·海勒。

Welcome to New York Zero.

The sequel to Radical Entertainment’s best-selling open-world action game of 2009, '''Prototype® 2''' takes the unsurpassed carnage of the original Prototype and continues the experience of becoming the ultimate shape-shifting weapon. You are Sgt James Heller, husband to a deceased wife and child and a soldier left simply to die.

As the game’s all-new infected protagonist, players will experience Sgt James Heller cutting a bloody swathe through the wastelands of post-viral New York Zero. Equipped with unparalleled new shapeshifting powers,players will gradually build a vast genetic arsenal of deadly new biological weapons and abilities as they hunt, kill and consume their way toward the ultimate goal – to kill…Alex…Mercer! 

Are you ready to murder your maker?

== 关于这款游戏 ==

=== Key Features ===

* The Power of Tendrils: Prepare to unleash the ultimate form of shape-shifting devastation. Sgt James Heller’s incredible new Tendril power lets you lift and tear apart cars and military vehicles, ensnare powerful infected beasts and even rip large groups of enemies to shreds. Get ready to unleash hell!
* Customize Your Killer: Prototype 2 delivers the raw power of character customization back into your hands, allowing players to creatively mix-n-match a devastating range of new Mutation perks into their ultimate Prototype. Faster and bigger locomotion abilities, sharper claws or even enhanced disguise abilities – the choice is yours!
* Hunt – Kill – Become: Imagine having the power to track down any enemy by unleashing a powerful sonar-pulse from your body! Sgt James Heller brings an all-new dimension to the Prototype experience by letting you Hunt, Kill and Become anyone standing in your way. Disguise yourself as a soldier, scientist or anyone at all whilst absorbing their memories and acquiring new abilities. It doesn’t get any better than this!
* Bring Down the Devil: Gamers will experience the epic story of Sgt James Heller attempting to take down the devil himself… Alex Mercer. Unraveled against the explosive backdrop of New York Zero and it’s vicious factions warring for control over the infection, Prototype 2 sets the stage for the ultimate showdown “event” videogame of 2012.
* Size Does Matter: Utilizing the unparalleled technology of Radical’s proprietary ‘Titanium 2.0’ engine, Prototype 2 will redefine gamer’s expectations of over-the-top open world action. Witness building-sized Infected behemoths bullrushing entire city streets, whilst gliding and parkouring across swarms of highly trained Blackwatch soldiers. Prototype 2 = Bigger, Badder, Better!
* New York Zero: An All New Open-World Hunting Ground! The New York that humanity has come to know and love over the years no longer exists…it is now New York Zero, or more simply, NYZ.

'''PROTOTYPE 2’s''' NYZ open-world sandbox is broken up into three completely distinct zones. From the heavily militarized “Green Zone”, to the overcrowded refugee shanty town camps of the quarantined “Yellow Zone”, all the way to the war-ravaged nightmare known as the “Red Zone” – this is a city unlike anything gamer’s have experienced before. The home of Alex Mercer, the Red Zone portrays a nightmarish vision where the Blacklight virus has completely overrun the city’s shattered skyscrapers and population, with infection and the risk of death at every corner.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://store.steampowered.com/app/115320/Prototype_2/|title=Steam 上的 Prototype 2|accessdate=2018-9-8|author=Steam|date=2012年7月24日|publisher=Activision|language=中文（简体）及英语}}</ref>

==系統==
本作遊戲系統採用了與前作類似的系統，主角需要透過自己的超能力於城市中與軍隊對抗，並找出幕後黑手。

==腳注==
<references/>

==外部链接==
* {{en}}{{official website|http://www.prototypegame.com/}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Prototype 2}}
[[Category:2012年电子游戏|Category:2012年电子游戏]]
[[Category:動作冒險遊戲|Category:動作冒險遊戲]]
[[Category:開放世界遊戲|Category:開放世界遊戲]]
[[Category:科幻电子游戏|Category:科幻电子游戏]]
[[Category:动视游戏|Category:动视游戏]]
[[Category:PlayStation_3游戏|Category:PlayStation 3游戏]]
[[Category:Xbox_360遊戲|Category:Xbox 360遊戲]]
[[Category:Games_for_Windows认证游戏|Category:Games for Windows认证游戏]]
[[Category:Windows游戏|Category:Windows游戏]]
[[Category:Steam商店遊戲|Category:Steam商店遊戲]]
[[Category:后传电子游戏|Category:后传电子游戏]]
[[Category:文明崩潰後世界題材遊戲|Category:文明崩潰後世界題材遊戲]]
[[Category:丧尸游戏|Category:丧尸游戏]]
[[Category:變身題材作品|Category:變身題材作品]]
[[Category:报复题材电子游戏|Category:报复题材电子游戏]]
[[Category:纽约背景电子游戏|Category:纽约背景电子游戏]]
[[Category:加拿大開發電子遊戲|Category:加拿大開發電子遊戲]]