{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Ithomiola
| authority = C. & R. Felder, [1865]
| image = Illustrations of new species of exotic butterflies Limnas, Ithomeis &c.jpg
| image_caption = [[麗綃蜆蝶|麗綃蜆蝶]] (中上) ''Ithomiola floralis''<br />[[美麗綃蜆蝶|美麗綃蜆蝶]] (右上) ''Ithomiola callixena''
| type_species = [[麗綃蜆蝶|麗綃蜆蝶]]<br />''Ithomiola floralis''
| type_species_authority = C. & R. Felder, [1865]
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共11種，詳閱正文。
| synonyms =
* ''Compsoteria'' <small>Hewitson, 1870</small>
}}

'''麗綃蜆蝶屬'''（學名：'''''Ithomiola'''''）是[[蜆蝶科|蜆蝶科]][[蜆蝶亞科|蜆蝶亞科]][[美眼蜆蝶族|美眼蜆蝶族]]裡的一個[[屬|屬]]。共有11個物種，廣泛分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2011. Ithomiola C. Felder & R. Felder 1865. Version 17 January 2011 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Ithomiola/104218/2011.01.17 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Ithomiola/104218/2011.01.17 |date=20161019143348 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }} {{en}}</ref>。其中一些外表[[擬態|擬態]]模仿[[綃蝶族|綃蝶族]]物種。有更新的研究指出此屬是[[多系群|多系群]]<ref name=e2015>Espeland, M., Hall, J. P., DeVries, P. J., Lees, D. C., Cornwall, M., Hsu, Y. F., ... & Salzman, S. 2015. Ancient Neotropical origin and recent recolonisation: Phylogeny, biogeography and diversification of the Riodinidae (Lepidoptera: Papilionoidea). Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 93, 296-306. {{en}}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* ''Ithomiola buckleyi''
* [[美麗綃蜆蝶|美麗綃蜆蝶]] ''Ithomiola callixena''
* [[麗綃蜆蝶|麗綃蜆蝶]] ''Ithomiola floralis''
** 彩麗綃蜆蝶 ''I. f. cascella''
* ''Ithomiola cribralis''
* [[草納蜆蝶|草納蜆蝶]] ''Ithomiola theages''
* ''Ithomiola calculosa''
* ''Ithomiola neildi''
* ''Ithomiola tanos''
* ''Ithomiola bajotanos''
* [[白裙納蜆蝶|白裙納蜆蝶]] ''Ithomiola nepos''
* ''Ithomiola orpheus''

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Commons category|Ithomiola}}
* {{aut|Lamas, G.}}, 2004, ''Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera; Checklist: Part 4A; Hesperioidea-Papilionoidea'' Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* Hall, J. P. W. 2005. Montane speciation patterns in Ithomiola butterflies (Lepidoptera: Riodinidae): are they consistently moving up in the world? Proc. Royal Soc. B-Biol. Sci. 272:2457–2466.
* Hall, J P. W. 2005 . A phylogenetic revision of the Napaeina (Lepidoptera: Riodinidae: Mesosemiini). 235 pp. The Ent. Soc. Wash., Washington, D.C.
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新, 周尧, 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768}}

== 外部連結 ==
* [http://ftp.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/riodinidae/ithomiola/ Ithomiola] - funet.fi

{{蜆蝶亞科}}
{{Taxonbar}}
[[Category:麗綃蜆蝶屬|*]]
[[Category:美眼蜆蝶族|L]]
[[Category:_1865年描述的分类群|L]]