{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Speciesbox
| name = 日本虎鳳蝶
| fossil_range = {{fossilrange|7|0|earliest=}}<small>從新近紀[[中新世|中新世]]至今<ref name=c2015>Condamine, F. L., Rolland, J., Höhna, S., Sperling, F. A., & Sanmartín, I. (2018). Testing the role of the Red Queen and Court Jester as drivers of the macroevolution of Apollo butterflies. Systematic biology, 67(6), 940-964. {{en}}</ref></small>
| image = Luehdorfia japonica (2018-03-29).jpg
| image_width = 300px
| image_caption = 展翅形態
| image2 = Luehdorfia japonica (2018-03-29 s2).jpg
| image2_width = 300px
| image2_caption = 合翅形態
| status = NT
| status_system = iucn2.3
| status_ref = <ref name=iucn>Gimenez Dixon, M. 1996. Luehdorfia japonica. The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species 1996: e.T12406A3341075. https://dx.doi.org/10.2305/IUCN.UK.1996.RLTS.T12406A3341075.en. {{en}}</ref>
| genus = Luehdorfia
| species = japonica
| authority = Leech, 1889
| range_map = 
| range_map_width = 
| range_map_caption = 
| subdivision_ranks = 亞種
| subdivision = 
| synonyms = 
}}

'''日本虎鳳蝶'''（學名：''Luehdorfia japonica''）是[[鳳蝶科|鳳蝶科]][[虎鳳蝶屬|虎鳳蝶屬]]的一種[[蝴蝶|蝴蝶]]，是[[日本|日本]]特有種，分佈於[[本州|本州]]西至中部。中等大小蝴蝶，有淡黃色的白色和黑色條紋圖案，後翅的亞外緣和臀角附近有紅色和藍色的斑點。有尾狀突起。出沒於平地至山區[[落葉闊葉林|落葉闊葉林]]。 除了較天然的森林外，被砍伐後有良好管理的森林和人工林中也可以見到。<ref name=j2012>日本チョウ類保全協会 [日本蝴蝶保護協會] (2012). フィールドガイド　日本のチョウ 日本産全種がフィールド写真で検索可能 [野外指南 日本蝴蝶 所有來自日本的物種都可以使用現場照片進行搜索]. 東京: 誠文堂新光社. p50-51. {{ja}}</ref>

== 保護 ==
此物種於1996年列入國際自然保護聯盟瀕危物種紅色名錄（IUCN2.3）的[[近危物種|近危物種]]<ref name=iucn/>。因林地開發，全國范圍內的物種數量正在減少，特別是在太平洋沿岸一帶地區。在日本各地有開展保育活動。<ref name=j2012/>

== 習性 ==
成蝶白天時於森林低矮的地方緩慢飛行，如森林地面，而在森林的高處則相當快地飛行。愛訪花，包括[[豬牙花|豬牙花]]、[[堇菜科|堇菜科]]、[[杜鵑花目|杜鵑花目]]花卉，並有登峰集性。<ref name=j2012/>

幼蟲的[[寄主|寄主]]為有毒性的馬兜鈴科[[細辛屬|細辛屬]]（''Asarum''）植物，包括<ref>Makita, H., Shinkawa, T., Kazumasa, O., Kondo, A., Nakazawa, T., 2000. Phylogeny of Luehdorfia butterflies inferred from mitochondrial ND5 gene sequences. Entomological Science 3: 321-329.</ref>：[[雙葉細辛|雙葉細辛]]（''A. caulescens''）、[[庫頁細辛|庫頁細辛]]（''A. heterotropoides''）、[[細辛|細辛]]（''A. sieboldii''）、''A. hexalobum''、''A. asperum''、''A. tamaense''、''A. curvistigma''、''A. asaroides''、''A. blumei''、''A. nipponicum''、''A. fauriei''、''A. takaoi''、''A. kurosawae''、''A. megacalyx''、''A. yohikawai

== 參考 ==
{{reflist|}}

== 文獻 ==
:'''19世紀'''
* Leech, 1889. Description of a new Luehdorfia from Japan Entomologist 22 (309): [https://archive.org/stream/entomologist221889brit#page/n42/mode/1up 25]-26, pl. I.
:'''20世紀'''
* Shirôzu, T., Hara, A., 1973. Early stages of Japanese butterflies in colour. Vol. I. Osaka, Hoikusha.
* Kudrna, 1974, An annotated List of Japanese Butterflies [https://www.zobodat.at/pdf/Atalanta_5_0092-0120.pdf Atalanta 5] {{Wayback|url=https://www.zobodat.at/pdf/Atalanta_5_0092-0120.pdf |date=20190720152614 }}: 94
* Ackery, 1975, A guide to the genera and species of Parnassinae (Lepidoptera : Papilionidae) Bull. Br. Mus. (Nat. Hist.) Ent. 31 (4): [https://archive.org/stream/bulletinofbritis31entolond#page/93/mode/1up 93], pl. [https://archive.org/stream/bulletinofbritis31entolond#page/n166/mode/1up 11], f. 87-90
* Hara, S., Ochiai, H., 1980. On a hybrid between male Luehdorfia japonica and female L. puziloi inexpecta. Tyô to Ga 31: 97-101.
* Matsumoto, K., 1984. Population dynamics of Luehdorfia japonica Leech (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae). I. a preliminary study on the adult population. Researches on Population Ecology 26: 1-12.
* Matsumoto, K., 1987. Mating patterns of a sphragis-bearing butterfly, Luehdorfia japonica Leech (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae), with descriptions of mating behavior. Researches on Population Ecology 29: 97-110.
* Matsumoto, K., 1989. Effects of aggregation on the survival and development on different host plants in a papilionid butterfly, Luehdorfia japonica Leech. Jpn. J. ent. 57: 853-860.
* Matsumoto, K., 1990. Population dynamics of Luehdorfia japonica Leech (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae). II. Patterns of mortality in immatures in relation to egg cluster size. Researches on Population Ecology 32: 173-188.
* Tsubaki, Y., Matsumoto, K., 1998. Fluctuating asymmetry and male mating success in a sphragis bearing butterfly Luehdorfia japonica (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae). Journal of Insect Behaviour 11: 571-582.

== 外部連結 ==
* {{Commonscat-inline|Luehdorfia japonica}}
* {{Wikispecies-inline|Luehdorfia japonica}}
* [https://www.nic.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/papilionidae/parnassiinae/luehdorfia/#japonica ''Luehdorfia japonica''] {{Wayback|url=https://www.nic.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/papilionidae/parnassiinae/luehdorfia/#japonica |date=20201207212115 }} - funet.fi {{en}}
* [http://tolweb.org/Luehdorfia_japonica/65404 ''Luehdorfia japonica''] {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Luehdorfia_japonica/65404 |date=20210117042116 }} - Tree of Life Web Project {{en}}
* [http://www.lepiforum.de/lepiwiki.pl?Luehdorfia_Japonica ''Luehdorfia japonica''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.lepiforum.de/lepiwiki.pl?Luehdorfia_Japonica |date=20200304182208 }} - Bestimmungshilfe des Lepiforums {{de}}
{{Taxonbar}}
{{-}}
{{Authority control}}
{{-}}
{{虎鳳蝶屬|state=expanded}}
[[Category:虎鳳蝶屬|Category:虎鳳蝶屬]]
[[Category:日本昆蟲|Category:日本昆蟲]]