{{refimprove|time=2015-02-26T07:34:43+00:00}}
<!-- Largest city redirects here. For a list of the most populous cities within administrative limits, see [[List_of_cities_by_population|List of cities by population]]. For a list of urban areas, see [[List_of_urban_areas_by_population|List of urban areas by population]]. --> 
:历史数据见[[历史上的城市规模|历史上的城市规模]]

<!-- This page lists the 100 largest [[Metropolitan_Area|Metropolitan Area]]s of the world, ranked by population. This is a controversial issue rather difficult to quantify, as unlike national subdivisions, there are no consistently defined borders for such an area. Many of the figures for individual cities are highly controversial, and in some cases numbers which differ by millions are given by different sources. In some countries there are official definitions, but they are not consistent on a global basis, nor even necessarily within countries. In addition, the underlying structure of different metropolitan areas varies: comparing a highly centralised city with an agglomeration of smaller settlements may not be very meaningful. Commuting patterns and other aspects of urban behaviour which underlie the metro area concept differ greatly around the world. Thus, '''all population figures for specific metro areas should be treated as interpretations rather than hard facts''', and rankings and comparisons of metros should be treated with great caution.
==Three main definitions==
Three main definitions for the extent of a city:
* A '''morphological definition''' based on the '''[[urbanized_area|urbanized area]]''', which is usually defined as the continuous '''[[built-up_area|built-up area]]''' with the maximum allowable gap between structures of typically 200 m. This morphological definition is an efficient way of defining the visible city for inhabitants, especially from satellite or aerial view and because it is independent of  political boundaries. For statistical convenience, such areas are sometimes adjusted to appropriate administrative limits, sometimes including rural areas within the adjusted boundaries. The urban area definition is what would traditionally be called "the city" with limits that can easily be delineated from the air and is not dependent on how a country is administratively subdivided. 
* A '''functional definition''', which is the traditional concept of a '''[[Metropolitan_Area|Metropolitan Area]]'''. This definition is based on commuting from home to work. Commuter flow thresholds into the core urban area are established by the national census authority to determine which areas are included or not in the metropolitan area. This definition, however, often encompasses large periurban rural areas that are not usually considered as "cities". 
* An '''administrative definition''', typically based on a municipality (''city proper'') or equivalent entity, or sometimes a group of municipalities under a regional government. While statistical data for administrative divisions are easy to collect, they often do not reflect the true extent of the city.

==Definitions used here==
Most of the data for this list were compiled from the 2005 [[urban_agglomeration|urban agglomeration]] population figures from [[联合国|联合国]] [[2005|2005]] World Urbanization Prospects Report.<ref name="UNWUP">{{Cite web |url=http://esa.un.org/unup/ |title=United Nations World Urbanization Prospects: 2005 Revision |access-date=2007-03-15 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20100726105758/http://esa.un.org/unup/ |archive-date=2010-07-26 |dead-url=yes }}</ref> These figures represent a single urban/employment center and its immediately surrounding [[suburb|suburban area]]s. Figures with notations are from the indicated sources instead of the UN report.

Unless otherwise specified, figures are based on rough estimates for the year [[2005|2005]] and rounded to the nearest 1,000. Despite the standing of the organisation behind the figures, the appropriateness and consistency of the boundaries used is controversial and the aforementioned warnings apply. -->  

{| class="sortable wikitable"
!排名!!大都会区!!國家!!人口!!面積 (km<sup>2</sup>)!!人口密度 (人/km<sup>2</sup>)
|- 	 	
|1||[[東京都會區|東京]]||{{JPN}}||35,676,000||13,556||2,632
|-
|2||[[首爾|首爾]]||{{KOR}}||24,472,063||11,743||2,084
|-
|3||[[上海|上海]]||{{PRC}}||23,019,100||6,340||3,631
|-
|4||[[墨西哥城|墨西哥城]]<ref>Consists of two separate [[Metropolitan_areas_of_Mexico|zona metropolitanas]]: the Zona Metropolitana del Valle de Mexico (ZMVM) and the Zona Metropolitana de Toluca (ZMT)</ref>||{{MEX}}||20,450,000||7,346||2,784
|-
|5||[[廣佛同城化|广州-佛山]]<ref>There are restrictions on the link of metro transit and construction between Guangzhou and Foshan and the two areas are sometimes listed separately in other lists.</ref>||{{PRC}}||19,894,800||11,283||1,763
|-
|6||[[紐約市|紐約市]]<ref>Consists of two separate [[metropolitan_statistical_area|metropolitan statistical area]]s (MSA): the New York-Northern New Jersey Long Island MSA and the Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk MSA.</ref>||{{USA}}||19,750,000||17,884||1,104
|-
|7||[[北京|北京]]||{{PRC}}||19,612,000||16,410||1,195
|-
|8||[[孟買|孟買]]||{{IND}}||19,200,000||2,350||8,170
|-
|9||[[雅加达|雅加达]]||{{IDN}}||18,900,000||5,100||3,706
|-
|10||[[聖保羅|聖保羅]]||{{BRA}}||18,850,000||8,479||2,223
|-
|11||[[德里|德里]]||{{IND}}||18,600,000||3,182||5,845
|-
|12||[[京阪神|京阪神]]||{{JPN}}||17,375,000||6,930||2,507
|-
|13||[[馬尼拉|馬尼拉]]||{{PHL}}||16,300,000||2,521||6,466
|-
|14||[[洛杉磯|洛杉磯]]||{{USA}}||15,250,000||10,780||1,415
|-
|15||[[加爾各答|加爾各答]]||{{IND}}||15,100,000||1,785||8,459
|-
|16||[[莫斯科|莫斯科]]||{{RUS}}||15,000,000||14,925||1,005
|-
|17||[[开罗|开罗]]||{{EGY}}||14,450,000||1,600||9,031
|-
|18||[[布宜諾斯艾利斯|布宜諾斯艾利斯]]||{{ARG}}||13,170,000||10,888||1,210
|-
|19||[[倫敦|倫敦]]||{{UK}}||12,875,000||11,391||1,130
|-
|20||[[卡拉奇|卡拉奇]]||{{PAK}}||11,800,000||1,100||10,727
|}

==按照国家的分布==

{| class="wikitable"
| 国家
| 列入前100名大都会区的数目
| 总人口
|-
|{{PRC}}
|15
|96,209,000
|-
|{{USA}}
|13
|90,509,526
|-
|{{IND}}
|9
|80,100,000
|-
|{{BRA}}
|8
|52,337,000
|-
|{{JPN}}
|3
|49,164,844
|-
|{{MEX}}
|3
|26,975,000
|-
|{{KOR}}
|2
|26,324,000
|-
|{{RUS}}
|2
|19,062,000
|-
|{{PAK}}
|2
|17,897,000
|-
|{{IDN}}
|2
|17,341,000
|-
|{{BAN}}
|2
|16,544,000
|-
|{{TUR}}
|2
|14,905,000
|-
|{{EGY}}
|2
|14,898,000
|-
|{{ARG}}
|1
|12,550,000
|-
|{{UK}}
|1
|11,624,807
|-
|{{FRA}}
|1
|11,491,000
|-
|{{ESP}}
|2
|11,317,587
|-
|{{COL}}
|2
|11,193,721
|-
|{{NGA}}
|1
|10,886,000
|-
|{{PHL}}
|1
|10,686,000
|-
|{{GER}}
|2
|10,294,752
|-
|{{VIE}}
|2
|9,229,000
|-
|{{ROC}}
|1
|8,982,171
|-
|{{CAN}}
|2
|8,952,000
|-
|{{PER}}
|1
|8,187,398
|-
|{{AUS}}
|2
|7,957,000
|-
|{{ITA}}
|2
|7,605,306
|-
|{{IRN}}
|1
|7,314,000
|-
|{{THA}}
|1
|6,593,000
|-
|{{RSA}} 
|1
|6,239,745
|-
|{{COD}}
|1
|6,049,000
|-
|{{IRQ}}
|1
|5,904,000
|-
|{{CHI}}
|1
|5,683,000
|-
|{{SUD}}
|1
|4,518,000
|-
|{{SIN}}
|1
|4,326,000
|-
|{{MAS}}
|1
|4,300,000
|-
|{{SAU}}
|1
|4,193,000
|-
|{{MYA}}
|1
|4,107,000
|-
|{{GRE}}
|1
|3,894,573
|-
|{{CIV}}
|1
|3,577,000
|-
|{{PRK}}
|1
|3,351,000
|}

__NOTOC__

== 参考注释区 ==
<div class="references-small" style="-moz-column-count:2; column-count:2;">
<references />
</div>

== 参见 ==
*[[按人口排列的世界城市列表|按人口排列的世界城市列表]]

== 外部链接 ==
=== 其他列表 ===

*[http://www.populationdata.net/palmaresvilles.php PopulationData.net: all 1M+ inhabitants Metropolitan Areas] {{Wayback|url=http://www.populationdata.net/palmaresvilles.php |date=20090428231307 }}
*[http://www.demographia.com/db-world-metro2000.htm Demographia.com: 50 Largest World Metropolitan Areas] {{Wayback|url=http://www.demographia.com/db-world-metro2000.htm |date=20101123094227 }}
*[http://citypopulation.de/World.html Citypopulation.de: The Principal Agglomerations of the World] {{Wayback|url=http://citypopulation.de/World.html |date=20190705235803 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20070930220511/http://www.world-gazetteer.com/wg.php?x=1131897520&men=gcis&lng=en&gln=xx&des=gamelan&dat=32&srt=npan&col=ohdq&pt=a&va=&srt=pnan World Gazetteer: Metropolitan Areas]

=== 延伸阅读 ===
*[http://geography.about.com/library/weekly/aa011201a.htm Largest Cities Through History] {{Wayback|url=http://geography.about.com/library/weekly/aa011201a.htm |date=20050527095609 }}
*[http://www.demographia.com/db-cancma.htm Canada Metropolitan Areas] {{Wayback|url=http://www.demographia.com/db-cancma.htm |date=20210225050334 }} Census 2001.
*[http://www.demographia.com/db-metmic2004.pdf United States Metropolitan Areas] {{Wayback|url=http://www.demographia.com/db-metmic2004.pdf |date=20210226213340 }} County Based Metropolitan Area Estimates Based on Census Bureau Data 2004.

[[Category:城市列表|Category:城市列表]]
[[Category:大都会区|Category:大都会区]]
[[Category:人口列表|Category:人口列表]]

[[ar:قائمة_أكبر_بلديات_العالم_كثافة_سكانية|ar:قائمة أكبر بلديات العالم كثافة سكانية]]
[[de:Liste_der_größten_Städte_der_Welt|de:Liste der größten Städte der Welt]]
[[eo:Plej_grandaj_urboj_laŭ_enloĝantaro|eo:Plej grandaj urboj laŭ enloĝantaro]]
[[id:Daftar_wilayah_metropolitan_berdasarkan_populasi|id:Daftar wilayah metropolitan berdasarkan populasi]]
[[pt:Lista_de_regiões_metropolitanas_por_população|pt:Lista de regiões metropolitanas por população]]