{{Automatic taxobox
| taxon = Hypnaceae
| authority = Schimp., 1856
| image = Hypnum cupressiforme.jpeg
| image_caption = ''[[Hypnum_cupressiforme|Hypnum cupressiforme]]''
}}
'''灰藓科'''（[[学名|学名]]：{{lang|la|''Hypnaceae''}}）為[[灰藓目|灰藓目]]的一个[[科|科]]。

==科==
* ''Acritodon'' H. Rob.
* ''Andoa'' Ochyra
* ''Austrohondaella'' Z.Iwats., H.P.Ramsay & Fife
* ''Bardunovia'' Ignatov & Ochyra
* [[扁平藓属|扁平藓属]] ''Breidleria'' Loeske
* [[圆尖藓属|圆尖藓属]] ''Bryocrumia'' L. E. Anderson
* ''Buckiella'' Ireland
* [[拟腐木藓属|拟腐木藓属]]　''Callicladium'' H. A. Crum
* ''Campylophyllopsis'' W. R. Buck
* [[偏叶藓属|偏叶藓属]] ''Campylophyllum'' (Schimp.) M. Fleisch.
* ''Caribaeohypnum'' Ando & Higuchi
* ''Chrysohypnum'' (Hampe) G. Roth
* ''Crepidophyllum'' Herzog
* ''Ctenidiadelphus'' M. Fleisch.
* ''Cyathothecium'' Dixon
* ''Dacryophyllum'' Ireland
* [[短菱藓属|短菱藓属]] ''Ectropotheciella'' M. Fleisch.
* ''Ectropotheciopsis'' (Broth.) M. Fleisch.
* [[偏蒴藓属|偏蒴藓属]] ''Ectropothecium'' Mitt.
* ''Elharveya'' H. A. Crum
* ''Elmeriobryum'' Broth.
* ''Entodontella'' M. Fleisch.
* ''Eurohypnum'' Ando
* ''Filibryum'' W. Kim & T. Yamag.
* [[曲枝藓属|曲枝藓属]] ''Foreauella'' Dixon & P. de la Varde
* ''Gammiella'' Broth.
* [[粗枝藓属|粗枝藓属]] ''Gollania'' Broth.
* ''Hageniella'' Broth.
* ''Hondaella'' Dixon & Sakurai
* ''Horridohypnum'' W. R. Buck
* [[水梳藓属|水梳藓属]] ''Hyocomium'' Bruch & Schimp.
* [[灰藓属|灰藓属]] ''Hypnum'' Hedw.
* ''Irelandia'' W. R. Buck
* ''Karstia'' B.H. Allen
* [[平藓属|平藓属]] ''Leiodontium'' Broth.
* ''Leptoischyrodon'' Dixon
* ''Macrothamniella'' M. Fleisch.
* ''Mahua'' W. R. Buck
* [[小梳藓属|小梳藓属]] ''Microctenidium'' M. Fleisch.
* ''Mittenothamnium'' Henn.
* ''Nanothecium'' Dixon & P. de la Varde
* ''Neoptychophyllum'' S.He
* [[叶齿藓属|叶齿藓属]] ''Phyllodon'' Bruch & Schimp.
* ''Plagiotheciopsis'' Broth.
* [[拟平锦藓属|拟平锦藓属]] ''Platygyriella'' Cardot
* [[齿灰藓属|齿灰藓属]] ''Podperaea'' Z. Iwats. & Glime
* [[假丝灰藓属|假丝灰藓属]] ''Pseudohypnella'' (M. Fleisch.) Broth.
* [[拟鳞叶藓属|拟鳞叶藓属]]　''Pseudotaxiphyllum'' Z. Iwats.
* [[毛梳藓属|毛梳藓属]]　''Ptilium'' De Not.
* ''Rhacopilopsis'' Renauld & Cardot
* ''Rhizohypnella'' M. Fleisch.
* ''Sclerohypnum'' Dixon
* ''Stenotheciopsis'' Broth.
* [[拟硬叶藓属|拟硬叶藓属]] ''Stereodontopsis'' R. S. Williams
* ''Syringothecium'' Mitt.
* ''Taxiphyllopsis'' Higuchi & Deguchi
* ''Taxiphyllum'' M. Fleisch.
* [[毛青藓属|毛青藓属]]　''Tomentypnum'' Loeske
* [[明叶藓属|明叶藓属]] ''Vesicularia'' (Müll. Hal.) Müll. Hal.
* ''Wijkiella'' Bizot & Lewinsky

==參考文獻==
{{reflist}}

{{taxonbar}}

[[Category:_灰藓科|*]]
[[Category:1856年描述的分类群|H]]