{{noteTA
|1=zh-cn:雷蒙德;zh-tw:瑞蒙;
}}
{{Infobox scientist
|name          = 雷蒙德·卡特尔
|image         = Raymond Cattell.jpg
|image_size    = 225px
|caption       = 雷蒙德·卡特尔
|birth_name    =
|birth_date    = {{birth date|1905|03|20}}
|birth_place   = {{GBR}}[[伯明翰|伯明翰]]Hilltop
|death_date    = {{death date and age|1998|02|02|1905|03|20}}
|death_place   = {{USA}}[[夏威夷州|夏威夷州]][[檀香山|檀香山]]
|death_cause   = 
|resting_place = 
|residence     = 
|nationality   = 英國及美國
|ethnicity     = European
|field         = [[心理学|心理学]]
|work_institutions = [[伊利诺伊大学厄巴纳-香槟分校|伊利诺伊大学厄巴纳-香槟分校]]
|alma_mater        = [[伦敦国王学院|伦敦国王学院]]
|doctoral_advisor  = [[伦敦国王学院|伦敦国王学院]]{{tsl|en|Francis Aveling}}
|doctoral_students = 
|known_for     = [[16_Personality_Factors|16 Personality Factors]]、[[晶体智力|晶体智力]]、{{tsl|en|Cattell Culture Fair}}
|author_abbrev_bot = 
|author_abbrev_zoo = 
|influences        = 
|influenced        = 
|prizes            = 
|religion          = 
|footnotes         = 
|signature         =
}}

'''雷蒙德·-{zh-tw:伯納;zh-cn:伯纳德;zh-hk:巴納特;}-·卡特尔''' （{{lang-en|'''Raymond Bernard Cattell'''}}，{{bd|1905年|3月20日|1998年|2月2日}}），是一名[[英国|英国]]和[[美国|美国]][[心理学家|心理学家]]，创立[[晶体智力|晶体智力]]和[[流体智力|流体智力]]理论解释人类认知能力。在卡特尔92年的人生中，以多产著称，最终发表了55本著作，约500篇论文，以及30项标准测验。  

卡特尔致力于使用严格的科学方法，他很早就建议将要素分析方法应用于心理学，以取代他所称的“口头理论”。卡特尔在应用要素分析方面最重要的成就之一是分析出人类[[个性|个性]]的16种根源特质。他相信，通常人们所理解的个性，只是可以观察到的外显[[行为|行为]]，属于表面特质；它们由16种根源特质所决定。<!-- ("心理学与Life, 7 ed." by [[Richard_Gerrig|Richard Gerrig]]和[[菲利普·津巴多|菲利普·津巴多]]）。16种个性特质 理论and instruments used to 测量 them are known collectively as [[16种个性特质|16种个性特质]]。 -->而深源特質分為三類，分別為能力特質、氣質特質、動力特質。能力特質與使個人運作有效率的技巧與能力有關；氣質特質則與個人的情緒生活及其行為特性有關；動力特質個人的奮鬥力量、動機、自認重要的追求目標有關。

==创新与成就==
*流体智力与晶体智力
<!-- *Definition of the three domains of 个性 sphere (the totality of factorial measurements of 个性、能力与动机) 
*State and trait measurement of personality
*The Scree Test (using the curve of latent roots to judge the number of factors) 
*The Procrustes factor analysis rotation program (for testing a hypothesized factor structure) 
*The coefficient of profile similarity (taking account of shape, scatter, and level of two score profiles)
*The Dynamic Calculus (for assessing interests and motivation)
*P-technique factor analysis (for an occasion-by-variable matrix) 
*The Taxonome program (for ascertaining the number and contents of clusters in a data set) 
*The Basic Data Relations Box (the dimensions of experimental designs)
*Sampling of variables, as opposed to or in conjunction with sampling of persons 
*Group syntality construct (the "personality" of a group) 
*The factoring or repeated measures on single individuals to study fluctuating personality states 
*Multiple Abstract Variance Analysis (with "specification equations" embodying genetic and environmental variables and their interactions)
*The founding of the Society for Multivariate Experimental 心理学 and the journal Multivariate Behavioral Research
*Developed CFIT or [[卡特尔文化_Fair_III|文化 Fair 智力测验]] -->
<!-- ==Political criticism and APA 终生成就奖== -->

<!-- 卡特尔 has been criticized on the basis of his interests in eugenics, evolution and alternative cultures and political systems. Political critics also note that Cattell is known for laying out a mixture of [[Galton|Galtonian]] eugenics and [[theology|theology]] called [[Beyondism|Beyondism]], which he considered "a new morality from science," and that his work in this area was published numerous times in the [[Pioneer_Fund|Pioneer Fund]]'s ''[[Mankind_Quarterly|Mankind Quarterly]]'' and its editor, [[Roger_Pearson|Roger Pearson]], has published two of Cattell's monographs. 卡特尔 was also a Pioneer Fund recipient. [http://www.bethuneinstitute.org/documents/racialscientestrushton.html]

1994年，he was one of 52 signatories on "[[Mainstream_Science_on_Intelligence|Mainstream Science on Intelligence]]," an editorial written by [[Linda_Gottfredson|Linda Gottfredson]] and published in ''[[Wall_Street_Journal|Wall Street Journal]]'', which defended the findings on [[race_and_intelligence|race and intelligence]] in ''[[The_Bell_Curve|The Bell Curve]]''.--> 

1997年，美国心理学会(APA)为92岁的卡特尔颁发“心理科学终生成就金质奖章”。不过，在奖章颁发之前，一名伊利诺斯大学的校友[[巴里·梅赫勒|巴里·梅赫勒]]，通过他的非营利基金会[[ISAR|ISAR]]公开发起挑战，反对卡特尔 [http://www.ferris.edu/isar/bios/Cattell/gold.htm] {{Wayback|url=http://www.ferris.edu/isar/bios/Cattell/gold.htm |date=20060913074301 }}，控告卡特尔同情种族主义和法西斯主义 [http://www.ferris.edu/isar/bios/Cattell/homepage.htm] {{Wayback|url=http://www.ferris.edu/isar/bios/Cattell/homepage.htm |date=20070405063551 }} <!-- and claiming that "it is unconscionable to honor this man whose work helps to dignify the most destructive political ideas of the twentieth century". {{ref|Mehler-Hirsch_connection}} A blue-ribbon committee was convened by the APA to investigate the legitimacy of the charges. However, before the committee reached a decision Cattell issued an open letter to the committee saying "I abhor racism and discrimination based on race. Any other belief would be antithetical to my life’s work" and saying that "it is unfortunate that the APA announcement … has brought misguided critics' statements a great deal of publicity." [http://www.cattell.net/devon/openletter.htm] He refused the award, withdrawing his name from consideration. The blue ribbon committee was therefore disbanded and Cattell, in failing health,几个月后去世。 -->

==参考文献==
{{Reflist}}
#{{note|Mehler-Hirsch_connection}} Mehler reports that he was mentored by Jerry Hirsch, a colleague and strong critic of Cattell at the University of Illinois, where Cattell and Hirsch spent the majority of their careers. Cattell was also criticized by Rutgers professor [[William_H._Tucker|William H. "Bill" Tucker]], a friend and associate of Mehler's to whom Mehler "generously opened both his files and his home". In Tucker's book published with University of Illinois Press [https://web.archive.org/web/20061210102807/http://www.press.uillinois.edu/epub/books/tucker/acknow.html], Tucker claims that Cattell (in 1937) praised the eugenics laws of the pre-war Third Reich for promoting racial improvement.
</div>

<!-- ==Selected publications==
*Cattell, R.B., (1933). Psychology and social progress: Mankind and destiny from the standpoint of a scientist. London: C. W. Daniel.
*Cattell, R. B. (1937). The fight for our national intelligence. London: P. S. King.
*Cattell, R. B. (1965). The scientific analysis of personality.  Harmondsworth (England): Penguin Books.
*Cattell, R. B. (1972). A new morality from science: Beyondism. New York: Pergamon Press.
*Cattell, R. B. (1987). Beyondism: Religion from science. New York: Praeger.

==Political publications mentioning Cattell==
 
*Tucker, W. H. (1994). "The science and politics of racial research". Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press.
*MacDonald,  Marvin J.   "Psychology, Eugenics and the Case of Raymond B. Cattell". History and Philosophy of Psychology Bulletin (Volume 10 number 2, 1998) A special issue of the journal reviewed the Cattell controversy. -->
==著作==
{{see details|Raymond Cattell (Books)}}

==论文==
{{see details|Raymond Cattell (Articles)}}

==外部链接==
*[http://www.cattell.net/devon/rbcmain.htm A Memorial to Raymond Bernard Cattell] {{Wayback|url=http://www.cattell.net/devon/rbcmain.htm |date=20070210034054 }}
*[http://www.indiana.edu/~intell/rcattell.shtml Human Intelligence: Raymond B. Cattell] {{Wayback|url=http://www.indiana.edu/~intell/rcattell.shtml |date=20191019034733 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20070210024118/http://www.psy.pdx.edu/PsiCafe/KeyTheorists/Cattell.htm The Psi Cafe: Raymond Cattell]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20050328192418/http://www.stu.ca/~jgillis/cattell.html John Gillis's official biography of Raymond B. Cattell]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20070301044037/http://www.lrainc.com/swtaboo/taboos/beyond01.html A Concise Beyondist Catechism]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20190328054141/http://www.eugenics.net/papers/eb7.html Interview With Raymond B. Cattell] from ''The Eugenics Bulletin'', Spring-Summer 1984.
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20190324190507/http://www.eugenics.net/papers/Inq4.html Raymond B. Cattell and The Fourth Inquisition]

{{Authority control}}
[[Category:1905年出生|C]]
[[Category:1998年逝世|C]]
[[Category:美国心理学家|C]]
[[Category:英国心理学家|C]]
[[Category:倫敦國王學院校友|C]]
[[Category:智力|Category:智力]]
[[Category:心理测验学|Category:心理测验学]]
[[Category:作家|Category:作家]]