{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Clavaria
| authority = Vaill. ex L. (1753)
| image = Clavaria fragilis 45549.jpg
| image_caption = 杆珊瑚菌
| type species = 杆珊瑚菌<br>''Clavaria fragilis''
| type species authority = Holmsk. (1790)
| Synonyms = 
* ''Clavaria'' <small>P. Micheli (1729)</small>
* ''Clavaria'' sect. ''Holocoryne'' <small>Fr. (1838)</small>
* ''Holocoryne'' <small>(Fr.) Bonord. (1851)</small>
* ''Stichoclavaria'' <small>Ulbr. (1928)</small>
}}

'''珊瑚菌属'''（[[学名|学名]]：''Clavaria''），是[[珊瑚菌科|珊瑚菌科]]下的一个属。

==下属物种==
本属包括以下物种：<ref>{{cite web |title=Clavaria P.Micheli, 1729 |url=https://www.gbif.org/species/9091779 |website=GBIF}}</ref>
* ''Clavaria acetosa'' Velen.
* [[锐角珊瑚菌|锐角珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria acuta'' Sowerby
* ''Clavaria aestivalis'' Romagn.
* ''Clavaria afrolutea'' P. Roberts
* ''Clavaria albidobisa'' Singer
* ''Clavaria alboglobospora'' R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria amoenoides'' Corner, K.S. Thind & Anand
* ''Clavaria appendiculata'' Franchi & M. Marchetti
* ''Clavaria arborea'' G.F. Atk.
* ''Clavaria arborescens'' Berk.
* ''Clavaria ardosiaca'' R.H. Petersen
* [[土色珊瑚菌|土色珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria argillacea'' Pers.
* ''Clavaria atrobadia'' Corner
* ''Clavaria atrofusca Velen.
* [[黑褐珊瑚菌|黑褐珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria atroumbrina Corner
* ''Clavaria avellaneonigrescens S. Imai
* ''Clavaria baileyi Massee
* ''Clavaria barbensis'' L.D. Gómez
* ''Clavaria barlae Bres.
* ''Clavaria borealis'' R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria braunii'' Henn.
* ''Clavaria caepicolorosa S.G.M. Fawc.
* ''Clavaria calabrica Franchi & M. Marchetti
* ''Clavaria californica R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria caloceriformis'' Oudem.
* ''Clavaria chrysenteron Maas Geest.
* ''Clavaria citriceps G.F. Atk.
* ''Clavaria citrinescens Velen.
* ''Clavaria citrinorubra R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria citripes G.F. Atk.
* ''Clavaria cladonia Speg.
* ''Clavaria clavata Peck
* ''Clavaria combustorum Velen.
* ''Clavaria comosa Pat.
* ''Clavaria congesta Corner
* ''Clavaria corbierei Bourdot & Galzin
* ''Clavaria cretacea Coker
* ''Clavaria cristatula Henn. & E. Nyman
* ''Clavaria crosslandii'' Cotton
* ''Clavaria cupreicolor R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria densa Peck
* ''Clavaria diverticulata A.N.M. Furtado & M.A. Neves
* ''Clavaria dubiosa Speg.
* ''Clavaria echino-olivacea R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria echinobrevispora R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria echinonivosa R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria exigua Peck
* ''Clavaria extenus Herp.
* ''Clavaria falcata Pers.
* ''Clavaria falcatispora Velen.
* ''Clavaria fastidiosa S. Imai
* ''Clavaria favrei'' (Quél.) Sacc. & Traverso
* ''Clavaria fellea Peck
* ''Clavaria filiola Corner
* [[黄珊瑚菌|黄珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria flavipes Pers.
* ''Clavaria flavopurpurea R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria flavostellifera Olariaga, Salcedo, P.P. Daniëls & Kautman.
* ''Clavaria flavuloides Burt
* ''Clavaria foetida G.F. Atk.
* ''Clavaria fragiliformis'' Velen.
* [[脆珊瑚菌|脆珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria fragilis'' Holmsk.，杆珊瑚菌
* [[烟色珊瑚菌|烟色珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria fumosa Pers.
* ''Clavaria fumosoides Kauffman
* [[微薄明珊瑚菌|微薄明珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria fuscata''
* ''Clavaria fuscoferruginea Leathers
* ''Clavaria fusispora'' (Corner) R.H. Petersen
* [[胶质珊瑚菌|胶质珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria gelatinosa Coker
* [[扁珊瑚菌|扁珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria gibbsiae Ramsb.
* ''Clavaria globospora Kauffman
* ''Clavaria gollanii'' Henn.
* ''Clavaria greletii'' Boud.
* ''Clavaria greletoides Arauzo & P. Iglesias
* ''Clavaria griseobrunnea Olariaga, Salcedo, Albizu & Kautmanová
* ''Clavaria guarapiensis'' Speg.
* ''Clavaria guilleminii'' Bourdot & Galzin
* ''Clavaria helicoides Pat. & Demange
* ''Clavaria incarnata Weinm.
* ''Clavaria indica Corner, K.S. Thind & Dev
* ''Clavaria informis'' E.H.L. Krause
* ''Clavaria isabellina Bres.
* [[灯草珊瑚菌|灯草珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria juncea''
* ''Clavaria kisoensis'' S. Imai
* ''Clavaria krieglsteineri Kajan & Grauw.
* ''Clavaria lanceolata S. Imai
* ''Clavaria leucoporphyria Singer
* [[棒珊瑚菌|棒珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria ligata''
* [[淡紫珊瑚菌|淡紫珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria lilacina''
* ''Clavaria lithocras D.A. Reid
* ''Clavaria longispora Corner
* ''Clavaria luteostirpata S.G.M. Fawc.
* ''Clavaria macounii'' Peck
* ''Clavaria maricola Kauffman
* ''Clavaria martinii'' Corner
* ''Clavaria meakanensis'' S. Imai
* ''Clavaria megaspinosa R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria messapica Agnello, Kautman. & M. Carbone
* ''Clavaria mima R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria minima Corner
* ''Clavaria murina Velen.
* [[苔藓珊瑚菌|苔藓珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria muscoides''
* ''Clavaria muscula R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria musculospinosa R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria mutans Burt
* ''Clavaria nebulosa Peck
* ''Clavaria nebulosoides Kauffman
* ''Clavaria neofossicola Corner
* ''Clavaria neonigrita R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria nguelensis'' Henn.
* ''Clavaria nigricans Lloyd
* ''Clavaria ninea Quél.
* ''Clavaria nodulosperma G.F. Atk.
* ''Clavaria novozealandica R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria nymaniana Henn. & E. Nyman
* ''Clavaria obtusata Boud.
* ''Clavaria occidentalis'' Zeller
* ''Clavaria ochracea Velen.
* ''Clavaria odoratissima Peck
* ''Clavaria oreoselini Velen.
* ''Clavaria oronoensis'' R.H. Petersen & Litten
* ''Clavaria pallidorosea S.G.M. Fawc.
* [[沼生珊瑚菌|沼生珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria paludicola''
* ''Clavaria pampaeana Speg.
* ''Clavaria pamparum Speg.
* ''Clavaria parallela Rick
* ''Clavaria parvispora Kautman., Majerová & Olariaga
* ''Clavaria perforata Velen.
* ''Clavaria phoenicea Zoll.
* ''Clavaria phycophila Leathers
* ''Clavaria pinophila Peck
* ''Clavaria plumbeoargillacea R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria pseudoincarnata Franchi & M. Marchetti
* ''Clavaria pulcherrima Lj.N. Vassiljeva
* ''Clavaria pullei Donk
* ''Clavaria pulverulentorosea Speg.
* ''Clavaria pulvinaris'' Maas Geest.
* ''Clavaria pumanquensis'' Lazo
* [[紫珊瑚菌|紫珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria purpurea''
* ''Clavaria pygmaea Rick
* ''Clavaria radotinensis'' Velen.
* ''Clavaria raveneliana Coker
* ''Clavaria ravida Maas Geest.
* ''Clavaria redoleoalii'' R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria regularis'' Herp.
* ''Clavaria ridleyi Massee
* ''Clavaria rigelliae Velen.
* ''Clavaria rosacea Henn.
* [[红珊瑚菌|红珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria rosea Fr.
* ''Clavaria roseoviolacea R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria rosolana Petch
* ''Clavaria rubescens Raf.
* [[深红珊瑚菌|深红珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria rubicundula Leathers
* ''Clavaria rubrofiliformis'' S. Imai
* ''Clavaria rufobrunnea Coker
* ''Clavaria salentina Agnello & Baglivo
* ''Clavaria sanguinaria R. Heim
* ''Clavaria sanguineoacuta Overeem
* ''Clavaria sarasinii'' Cotton
* ''Clavaria schroeteri Henn.
* ''Clavaria schweinfurthiana Henn.
* ''Clavaria seminicola Henn.
* ''Clavaria shimadae S. Imai
* ''Clavaria sphagnicola Boud.
* ''Clavaria spiculisperma G.F. Atk.
* [[尖孢珊瑚菌|尖孢珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria spiculospora'' G.F. Atk.
* ''Clavaria splendidula S. Imai
* ''Clavaria stegasauroides R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria stellifera J. Geesink & Bas
* ''Clavaria stillingeri Coker
* ''Clavaria straminea Cotton
* ''Clavaria subacuta S. Ito & S. Imai
* ''Clavaria subaurantiaca Henn. & E. Nyman
* ''Clavaria subaustralis'' (R.H. Petersen) R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria subfalcata G.F. Atk.
* ''Clavaria subfistulosa Henn.
* ''Clavaria subglobosa'' (Corner) A.N.M. Furtado & M.A. Neves
* ''Clavaria subsordida ''R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria subtilissima'' S. Imai
* ''Clavaria subviolacea'' R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria taxophila'' Lloyd
* [[薄柄珊瑚菌|薄柄珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria tenuipes'' Berk. & Broome
* ''Clavaria thymiphila'' Velen.
* [[越南珊瑚菌|越南珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria tonkinensis''
* ''Clavaria tortuosa'' L.D. Gómez
* ''Clavaria trigonosperma'' S. Imai
* ''Clavaria tuberculospora'' R.H. Petersen
* ''Clavaria typhoidea'' Henn.
* ''Clavaria tyrrhenica'' Franchi & M. Marchetti
* [[豆芽珊瑚菌|豆芽珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria vermiculata'' Scop.，虫形珊瑚菌
* ''Clavaria versatilis'' (Quél.) Sacc. & Trotter
* ''Clavaria vinculum'' Velen.
* ''Clavaria xanthoporphyria'' Singer
* ''Clavaria xylarioides'' Petch
* ''Clavaria ypsilonidia'' R.H. Petersen
* [[佐林格珊瑚菌|佐林格珊瑚菌]] ''Clavaria zollingeri'' Lév.，堇紫珊瑚菌

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_珊瑚菌属|*]]
[[Category:_珊瑚菌科|S]]
[[Category:_1753年描述的分类群|S]]