{{Request translation}}
{{Infobox Former Subdivision
|name =
|native_name = 孟加拉管辖区 (1757–1912)<br /> 孟加拉行省 (1912–47)
|conventional_long_name = Bengal Presidency (1757–1912)<br /> Bengal Province (1912–47)
|common_name = Bengal Presidency
|subdivision = [[Presidencies_and_provinces_of_British_India|轄區及省]]
|nation= [[英屬印度|英屬印度]]
|era = 新帝國主義
|year_start = 1765
|event_start= [[Treaty_of_Allahabad|Treaty of Allahabad]]<br>（<small>[[布克薩爾戰役|布克薩爾戰役]]</small>）
|year_end = 1947
|event_end= [[印巴分治|印巴分治]] 
|capital = [[加爾各答|加爾各答]]
|event1 =Partition of Bengal (1905)
|date_event1 = 1905–11
|event2 =Montagu–Chelmsford Reforms
|date_event2 = 1916–21
|event3 = 孟加拉省成立<br>(separation of Bihar and Orissa)
|date_event3 = 1912
|date_event4 = 1947
|p1 = Bengal Subah
|flag_p1 =Alam of the Mughal Empire.svg
|p2 = Straits Settlements
|flag_p2 =Flag of the British Straits Settlements (1925–1946).svg
|s1 = West Bengal
|flag_s1 = Flag of India.svg
|s2 = East Bengal
|flag_s2 = Flag of Pakistan.svg
|s3 = Bihar and Orissa Province
|flag_s3 = British Raj Red Ensign.svg
|image_flag =Flag of British Bengal.svg
|flag_type=[[Star_of_India_(flag)|Flag]]
|image_coat = Badge of British Bengal.svg
|image_map= Bengal Presidency 1858.png
|image_map_caption = 全盛時期的管轄範圍（淺色者為土邦）
|stat_area1 =
|stat_year1 =
|stat_pop1 =
|today      = [[孟加拉|孟加拉]]<br />[[印度|印度]]<br />[[巴基斯坦|巴基斯坦]]<br />[[緬甸|緬甸]]<br />[[新加坡|新加坡]]<br />[[馬來西亞|馬來西亞]]<br />[[澳洲|澳洲]]
}}
'''孟加拉管辖区'''（{{Lang-en|Bengal Presidency}}），正式名称为'''[[威廉堡_(印度)|威廉堡]]管辖区'''（{{Lang-en|Presidency of Fort William}}）、孟加拉省（{{Lang-en|Bengal Province}}），是[[英属印度|英属印度]]的一个地区。管辖範圍大致為[[印度次大陸|印度次大陸]]西北部。[[槟榔屿|槟榔屿]]和[[新加坡|新加坡]]在行政上也曾是管辖区的一部分，直到它们于1867年组成[[海峡殖民地|海峡殖民地]]。1699年，东印度公司宣布加尔各答为[[英属印度诸省|首府]]。孟加拉管辖区的开始于1765年，[[英国东印度公司|英国东印度公司]]与[[莫卧儿帝国|莫卧儿帝国]]皇帝和[[奥德|奥德]]行政长官之间的条约，将[[孟加拉|孟加拉]]、[[比哈尔|比哈尔]]和[[奥里萨|奥里萨]]置于公司管辖之下。管辖区包括[[中央省|中央省]]以北所有英国领地，从[[恒河|恒河]]和[[布拉马普特拉河|布拉马普特拉河]]口到[[喜马拉雅山脉|喜马拉雅山脉]]和[[旁遮普|旁遮普]]。1831年西北省成立，随后包括[[Oudh|Oudh]] in {{link-en|聯合省 (印度)|United Provinces (1937–50)|联合省}}（北方邦）；第一次世界大战前夕整个印度北部被分为4个lieutenant-governorships ：旁遮普、联合省、孟加拉和东孟加拉和 [[阿萨姆|阿萨姆]]和[[西北边境省|西北边境省]] under a Commissioner。

==詳細範圍==
最大时包括现在的[[孟加拉国|孟加拉国]]全境、印度的[[西孟加拉邦|西孟加拉邦]]、[[阿萨姆邦|阿萨姆邦]]、[[比哈尔邦|比哈尔邦]]、[[奥里萨邦|奥里萨邦]]、[[北方邦|北方邦]]、[[Uttarakhand|Uttarakhand]]、[[旁遮普邦|旁遮普邦]]、[[哈里亚纳邦|哈里亚纳邦]]和[[喜马偕尔邦|喜马偕尔邦]]和[[Chhatisgarh|Chhatisgarh]]，[[Madhya_Pradesh|Madhya Pradesh]]和[[马哈拉施特拉邦|马哈拉施特拉邦]]的一部分、[[巴基斯坦|巴基斯坦]]的[[西北边境省|西北边境省]]和[[旁遮普省|旁遮普省]]、以及[[缅甸|缅甸]]。

[[新加坡|新加坡]]連[[聖誕島|聖誕島]]和[[科科斯（基林）群島|科科斯（基林）群島]]、[[馬六甲|馬六甲]]和[[檳城|檳城]]，由1826年至1867年也由轄區管理，直至後來英方願意將這些地方獨立管理。

==名称起源==

<!-- The name "Bengal" is derived from Sanskrit "Vanga," and, strictly speaking, applies to the country stretching southwards from [[Bhagalpur|Bhagalpur]] to the sea. The ancient Bangla formed one of the five outlying kingdoms of Aryan India, and was practically conterminous with the delta of Bengal. It derived its name, according to the etymology of the Pundits, from a prince of the [[Mahabharata|Mahabharata]], to whose portion it fell on the partition of the country among the Lunar race of Delhi. But a city called Bangala, near [[Chittagong|Chittagong]], which, although now washed away, is supposed to have existed in the Muslim period, appears to have given the name to the European world. The word ''Bangala'' was first used by the Muslim rulers; and under their rule, like the Bangla pre-Muslim times, it applied specifically to the Gangetic delta, although the later conquests to the east of the [[Brahmaputra|Brahmaputra]] were eventually included within it. In their distribution of the country for fiscal purposes, it formed the central province of a governorship, with Bihar on the north-west, and Orissa on the south-west, jointly ruled by one deputy of the Delhi emperor. Under the English the name has at different periods borne very different significations. Francis Fernandez applies it to the country from the extreme east of Chittagong to Point Palmyras in Orissa, with a coast line which Purchas estimates at 600 m., running inland for the same distance and watered by the [[Ganges|Ganges]]. This territory would include the Muslim province of Bengal, with parts of Bihar and Orissa. The loose idea thus derived from old voyagers became stereotyped in the archives of the East India Company. All its north-eastern factories, from [[Balasore|Balasore]], on the Orissa coast, to Patna, in the heart of Bihar, belonged to the Bengal Establishment, and as British conquests crept higher up the rivers, the term came to be applied to the whole of Northern India. --> 

==早期历史==

17世纪上半叶，东印度公司在孟加拉建立最早的居留地。这些居留地完全是商业性的。1620年，一位公司代理人在巴特那立足；1624-1636年公司<!--  established itself, by the favour of the emperor, on the ruins of the ancient Portuguese settlement of Pippli, in the north of Orissa; in 1640-1642 an English surgeon, Gabriel Boughton, obtained establishments at [[Balasore|Balasore]], also in Orissa, and at Hughli, some miles above Calcutta, where the [[Portugal|Portuguese]] already had a settlement. The difficulties which the Company’s early agents encountered more than once almost induced them to abandon the trade, and in 1677-1678 they threatened to withdraw from Bengal altogether. In 1685, the Bengal factors, seeking greater security for their trade purchased from the grandson of [[Aurangzeb|Aurangzeb]], in 1696, the villages which have since grown up into Calcutta, the metropolis of India, namely Kalikata, Sutanuti and Govindpur. They were given exemption from trade duties and exactions in part of Bengal in 1717 by the Emperor [[Farrukhsiyar|Farrukhsiyar]]. During the next forty years the British had a long and hazardous struggle alike with the Mughal governors of the province and the [[Maratha|Maratha]] armies which invaded it. In 1756 this struggle culminated in the fall of Calcutta to Nawab [[Siraj_Ud_Daulah|Siraj Ud Daulah]] followed by [[Robert_Clive|Clive]]’s [[battle_of_Plassey|battle of Plassey]] and recapture of the city. The [[Battle_of_Buxar|Battle of Buxar]] established British military supremacy in Bengal, and procured the treaties of 1765, by which the provinces of Bengal, Bihar and Orissa passed under British administration. The other important institution which emerged in this period was [[Bengal_Army|Bengal Army]], by far the largest of the three Presidency armies, which until the [[Indian_Mutiny|Indian Mutiny]] in 1857 recruited mainly Rajputs and Bhumihar Brahmins from [[Purbiya|Purbiya]]. -->

==行政改革和永久居留地==

<!-- To Warren Hastings (1772-1785) belongs the credit of consolidating British power in Bengal, and converting a military occupation into a relatively stable civil government. To another member of the civil service, John Shore, afterwards Lord Teignmouth, was due the formation of a regular system of legislation. Acting through [[Lord_Cornwallis|Lord Cornwallis]], then Governor-General, he ascertained and defined the rights of the landholders in the soil. These landholders under the previous system had started, for the most part, as collectors of the revenues, and gradually acquired certain prescriptive rights as quasi-proprietors of the estates entrusted to them by the government. In 1793 Lord Cornwallis declared their rights perpetual, and made over the land of Bengal to the previous quasi-proprietors or ''zamindars'', on condition of the payment of a fixed land tax. This piece of legislation is known as the [[Permanent_Settlement|Permanent Settlement]] of the Land Revenue. It was designed to "introduce" ideas of property rights to India, and stimulate a market in land. The former aim misunderstood the nature of landholding in India, and the latter was an abject failure. The Cornwallis code, while defining the rights of the proprietors, failed to give adequate recognition to the rights of the under-tenants and the cultivators. This remained a serious problem for the duration of British Rule, as throughout the Bengal Presidency ''ryots'' (peasants) found themselves oppressed by rack-renting landlords, who knew that every rupee they could squeeze from their tenants over and above the fixed revenue demand from the Government represented pure profit. Furthermore the Permanent Settlement took no account of inflation, meaning that the value of the revenue to Government declined year by year, whilst the heavy burden on the peasantry grew no less. This was compounded in the early 19th century by compulsory schemes for the cultivation of [[Opium|Opium]] and Indigo, the former by the state, and the latter by British planters (most especially in the district of [[Tirhut|Tirhut]] in Bihar). Peasants were forced to grow a certain acreage of these crops, which were then purchased at below market rates for export. This added greatly to rural poverty. --> 

<!-- So unsuccessful was the Permanent Settlement that it was not introduced in the North-Western Provinces (taken from the Marathas during the campaigns of [[Lord_Lake|Lord Lake]] and [[Arthur_Wellesley|Arthur Wellesley]]) after 1831, in Punjab after its conquest in 1849, or in [[Oudh|Oudh]] which was annexed in 1856. These regions were nominally part of the Bengal Presidency, but remained administratively distinct. Officially Punjab, Agra and Allahabad had Lieutenant-Governors subject to the authority of the Governor of Bengal in Calcutta, but in practice they were more or less independent. The only all-Presidency institutions which remained were the Bengal Army and the Civil Service. The Bengal Army was finally amalgamated into the new [[Indian_Army|Indian Army]] in 1904-5, after a lengthy struggle over its reform between [[Herbert_Kitchener,_1st_Earl_Kitchener|Lord Kitchener]], the Commander-in-Chief, and [[Lord_Curzon|Lord Curzon]], the Viceroy. -->

==1905年孟加拉分治==
{{main|孟加拉分治 (1905年)}}
<!-- The partition of the large province of Bengal, which was decided upon by Lord Curzon, was carried into execution in October 1905. The [[Chittagong_Division|Chittagong]], [[Dacca_Division|Dacca]] and [[Rajshahi_Division|Rajshahi]] divisions, the [[Malda_District|Malda District]] and the state of Hill [[Tipperah|Tipperah]] were transferred from Bengal to a new province, Eastern Bengal and [[Assam|Assam]]; the five Hindi-speaking states of [[Chota_Nagpur|Chota Nagpur]], namely Chang Bhakar, Korea, Sirguja, Udaipur and Jashpur, were transferred from Bengal to the Central Provinces; and Sambalpur and the five Oriya states of Bamra, Rairakhol, Sonepur, Patna and Kalahandi were transferred from the Central Provinces to Bengal. The province of West Bengal then consisted of the thirty-three districts of [[Burdwan_District|Burdwan]], [[Birbhum_District|Birbhum]], [[Bankura|Bankura]], [[Midnapur|Midnapur]], [[Hooghly_District|Hughli]], [[Howrah|Howrah]], Twenty-four Parganas, [[Calcutta|Calcutta]], [[Nadia_District|Nadia]], [[Murshidabad|Murshidabad]], [[Jessore|Jessore]], [[Khulna|Khulna]], [[Patna|Patna]], [[Gaya|Gaya]], Shahabad, Saran, [[Champaran_District|Champaran]], [[Muzaffarpur_District|Muzaffarpur]], Darbhanga, [[Monghyr|Monghyr]], [[Bhagalpur|Bhagalpur]], [[Purnea|Purnea]], [[Santhal|Santhal]] Parganas, [[Cuttack|Cuttack]], [[Balasore|Balasore]], Angul and Khondmals, Pun, Hazaribagh, [[Ranchi|Ranchi]], Palamau, Manbhum, Singhbum and Sambalpur, and the [[princely_states|princely states]] of [[Sikkim|Sikkim]] and the tributary states of Orissa and [[Chota_Nagpur|Chota Nagpur]]. 

This decision proved highly controversial, as it resulted in a largely Hindu West Bengal and a largely Muslim East. Serious popular agitation followed this step, partly on the grounds that this was part of a cynical policy of divide and rule, and partly that the Bengali population, the centre of whose interests and prosperity was Calcutta, would now be divided under two governments, instead of being concentrated and numerically dominant under the one, while the bulk would be in the new division. In 1906-1909 the unrest developed to a considerable extent, requiring special attention from the Indian and Home governments, and this led to the decision being reversed in 1912. It is often forgotten that the same year saw the separation from Bengal of Bihar and Orissa, which, for the first time were made independent provinces, the former with its capital at [[Patna|Patna]], the latter administered from [[Cuttack|Cuttack]]. This change proved a popular and lasting one. 

With this final partition, the Bengal Presidency ceased to exist in all but name, and even this disappeared after the [[Montagu-Chelmsford_reforms|Montagu-Chelmsford reforms]] of 1919 reconstituted Indian Provincial Government. -->

==参考==
{{1911}}
* C.A. Bayly ''Indian Society and the Making of the British Empire'' (Cambridge) 1988
* C. E. Buckland ''Bengal under the Lieutenant-Governors'' (London) 1901 
* Sir James Bourdillon ''The Partition of Bengal'' (London: Society of Arts) 1905
* Susil Chaudhury ''From Prosperity to Decline. Eighteenth Century Bengal'' (Delhi) 1995
* Sir William Wilson Hunter ''Annals of Rural Bengal'' (London) 1868, and ''Orissa'' (London) 1872 
* P.J. Marshall ''Bengal, the British Bridgehead 1740-1828'' (Cambridge) 1987
* John R. McLane ''Land and Local Kingship in eighteenth-century Bengal'' (Cambridge) 1993

[[Category:英属印度诸省|Category:英属印度诸省]]
[[Category:18世纪建立的行政区划|Category:18世纪建立的行政区划]]
[[Category:1947年废除的行政区划|Category:1947年废除的行政区划]]