{{otheruses|subject=企業家|other=演員|吳漢章 (演員)}}

{{unreferenced|time=2013-05-08T06:57:43+00:00}}
{{Infobox_Person
| name = 吳漢章
|image=
|box_width= 
|occupation= 企業家
| period = 21世紀
|birth_name=
| other_names = 
| Sex = 男
|birth_date= {{birth year and age|1974}}
|birth_place= {{TWN}}
|death_date= 
|death_place= 
| nationality ={{ROC}}
| residence =
| party = 
| religion = 
| spouse = 
| relatives =
|education=[[國立台灣大學|國立台灣大學]]電機工程學研究所博士 (2002)<br>[[國立臺灣大學|國立臺灣大學]]電機工程學系 (1996)
| occupation = 
| past = 
*華新麗華董事長特別助理
*華碩雲端總經理
*華碩健康總經理
| work = 
| award = 
}}
'''吳漢章'''（{{bd|1974年|||}}），現任[http://www.asuscloud.com 華碩雲端]總經理並兼任[http://asus.life 華碩健康]總經理。

==簡歷==
吳漢章畢業於臺灣大學電機系並取得博士學位，同時也攻讀臺灣大學 EMBA 課程；總共發表超過 20 則國際期刊及論文，並擁有多個發行且正在申請的專利。<br><br>
吳漢章於 2008 年加入了華碩電腦集團，擔任「華碩雲端股份有限公司」CEO 一職<ref>http://www.netadmin.com.tw/article_content.aspx?sn=1007020002</ref>，肩負著華碩發展雲端產業及技術的使命，將雲端服務帶到全球的消費及商業市場，逐步帶領著華碩雲端成為雲端領域的領導品牌，發展出健康、完整、多元的華碩雲端生態圈，提供個人、企業、教育，甚至國家更好的情感連結、更具效率的工作方式與更優質的全球競爭力。

==著作列表==
1.	Lee, H. F., Chang, F. Y., Lu, C. L., Luo, J. C., Chen, C. Y., & Wu, H. C. (2010). Electrogastrographic characteristics in subjects with stomach remnant.Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology, 25(2), 339-344.<br>
2.	Lee, H. F., Chang, F. Y., Lu, C. L., Luo, J. C., Chen, C. Y., & Wu, H. C. (2010). Electrogastrographic characteristics in subjects with stomach remnant.Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology, 25(2), 339-344.<br>
3.	Chang, F. Y., Lu, C. L., Chen, C. Y., Luo, J. C., Lee, S. D., Wu, H. C., & Chen, J. Z. (2007). Fasting and postprandial small intestinal slow waves non‐invasively measured in subjects with total gastrectomy. Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology, 22(2), 247-252.<br>
4.	Chen, T. S., Lee, Y. C., Chang, F. Y., Wu, H. C., & Lee, S. D. (2006). Psychosocial distress is associated with abnormal gastric myoelectrical activity in patients with functional dyspepsia. Scandinavian journal of gastroenterology, 41(7), 791-796.<br>
5.	Lu, C. L., Chen, C. Y., Luo, J. C., Chang, F. Y., Lee, S. D., Wu, H. C., & Chen, J. D. (2005). Impaired gastric myoelectricity in patients with chronic pancreatitis: role of maldigestion. World J Gastroenterol, 11, 372-376.<br>
6.	Lu, C. L., Shan, D. E., Chen, C. Y., Luo, J. C., Chang, F. Y., Lee, S. D., ... & Chen, J. D. Z. (2004). Impaired gastric myoelectrical activity in patients with Parkinson's disease and effect of levodopa treatment. Digestive diseases and sciences, 49(5), 744-749.<br>
7.	CHANG, F. Y., LU, C. L., CHEN, C. Y., LUO, J. C., JIUN, K. L., LEE, S. D., & Wu, H. C. (2003). Stomach myoelectrical response of patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease receiving omeprazole treatment. Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology, 18(12), 1399-1406.<br>
8.	Wu, H. C., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (2002). A versatile multichannel direct-synthesized electrical stimulator for FES applications. Instrumentation and Measurement, IEEE Transactions on, 51(1), 2-9.<br>
9.	Wu, H. C., Lin, C. H., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (2002). Monitoring long-term uterine contractions. Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine, IEEE, 5(2), 36-40.<br>
10.	Chiou, Y. H., Tzeng, R. S., Lai, J. S., & Kuo, T. S. (2002, October). A digital signal processor based functional electrical stimulation system with its user interface design. In Engineering in Medicine and Biology, 2002. 24th Annual Conference and the Annual Fall Meeting of the Biomedical Engineering Society EMBS/BMES Conference, 2002. Proceedings of the Second Joint (Vol. 3, pp. 2384-2385). IEEE.<br>
11.	Lu, C. L., Chen, C. Y., Chang, F. Y., Kang, L. J., Lee, S. D., Wu, H. C., & Kuo, T. S. (2001). Impaired postprandial gastric myoelectrical activity in Chinese patients with nonulcer dyspepsia. Digestive diseases and sciences, 46(2), 242-249.<br>
12.	Chang, F. Y., Lu, C. L., Chen, C. Y., Lee, S. D., Wu, C. W., Young, S. T., ... & Kuo, T. S. (2001). Electrogastrographic characteristics in patients of stomach cancer. Digestive diseases and sciences, 46(7), 1458-1465.<br>
13.	Lin, C. L., Wu, H. C., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (2000). U.S. Patent No. 6,016,707. Washington, DC: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.<br>
14.	Han-Chang, W., Shuenn-Tsung, Y., & Te-Son, K. A versatile multichannel direct-synthesized electrical stimulator for FES applications. In Proc 17th Instrument Measur Techn Conf 2000 (pp. 180-185).<br>
15.	Wu, H. C., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (2000). A low-cost pressure sensor for maternal uterine activity monitoring. In Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, 2000. IMTC 2000. Proceedings of the 17th IEEE (Vol. 2, pp. 707-709). IEEE.<br>
16.	Wu, H. C., Lin, C. H., Wang, K. C., Wang, S. C., Chen, C. H., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (1999, October). A mobile system for real-time patient-monitoring with integrated physiological signal processing. In [Engineering in Medicine and Biology, 1999. 21st Annual Conf. and the 1999 Annual Fall Meeting of the Biomedical Engineering Soc.] BMES/EMBS Conference, 1999. Proceedings of the First Joint (Vol. 2, pp. 712-vol). IEEE.<br>
17.	Wu, H. C., Yang, L. P., Chen, C. H., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (1999, October). A low-cost architecture of audiometer based on direct digital synthesizer. In [Engineering in Medicine and Biology, 1999. 21st Annual Conf. and the 1999 Annual Fall Meeting of the Biomedical Engineering Soc.] BMES/EMBS Conference, 1999. Proceedings of the First Joint (Vol. 2, pp. 894-vol). IEEE.<br>
18.	Chang, F. Y., Lu, C. L., Chen, C. Y., Lee, S. D., Young, S. T., Wu, H. C., & Kuo, T. S. (2001). Real-time display of the stomach slow wave and its parameters in a newly designed electrogastrographic system. Journal of gastroenterology, 36(1), 10-17.<br>
19.	Wu, H. C., Yang, L. P., Chen, C. H., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (1999, October). A low-cost architecture of audiometer based on direct digital synthesizer. In [Engineering in Medicine and Biology, 1999. 21st Annual Conf. and the 1999 Annual Fall Meeting of the Biomedical Engineering Soc.] BMES/EMBS Conference, 1999. Proceedings of the First Joint (Vol. 2, pp. 894-vol). IEEE.<br>
20.	Wu, H. C., Wang, K. C., Chang, Y. W., Chang, F. Y., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (1998). Power distribution analysis of cutaneous electrogastrography using discrete wavelet transform. In Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, 1998. Proceedings of the 20th Annual International Conference of the IEEE(Vol. 6, pp. 3227-3229). IEEE.<br>
21.	Wu, H. C., Wang, S. C., Young, S. T., & Kuo, T. S. (1998). A recording and analyzing system for cutaneous electrogastrography. In Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, 1998. Proceedings of the 20th Annual International Conference of the IEEE (Vol. 4, pp. 1951-1952). IEEE.<br>
22.	Lin, C. L., Wu, H. C., Liu, T. Y., Lee, M. H., Luo, T. S., & Young, S. T. (1997). A portable monitor for fetal heart rate and uterine contraction. Engineering in Medicine and Biology Magazine, IEEE, 16(6), 80-84.<br>
23.	Lin, C. L., Liu, T. Y., Wu, H. C., Young, S. T., Lee, M. H., & Kuo, T. S. (1996). The design of a portable fetal heart rate and uterine contraction monitor. InEngineering in Medicine and Biology Society, 1996. Bridging Disciplines for Biomedicine. Proceedings of the 18th Annual International Conference of the IEEE (Vol. 1, pp. 51-52). IEEE.<br>
24.	Lin, C. L., Wu, H. C., Kuan, Y. C., Lee, M. H., & Kuo, T. S. (1997). A multichannel programmable DSP-based FES system. In Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, 1997. Proceedings of the 19th Annual International Conference of the IEEE (Vol. 5, pp. 1932-1933). IEEE.<br>

==外部連結==
*[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rSCvMHsz4k4 103資訊月開幕暨頒獎典禮-華碩雲端總經理吳漢章獲傑出資訊人才獎]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20120608070055/http://news.cts.com.tw/cnyes/money/201205/201205060995949.html 華碩雲端要向市場證明有能力建立完整雲端系統]
*[http://www.bnext.com.tw/article/view/id/30973 [軟體出英雄<nowiki>]</nowiki> 華碩雲端總經理吳漢章──站上軟硬整合第一線]
*[http://www.ithome.com.tw/node/82089 舊人才要上雲端，新人才要多元化]

[[category:台灣企業家|W]]
[[Category:華碩|Category:華碩]]
[[Category:國立臺灣大學電機資訊學院校友|Category:國立臺灣大學電機資訊學院校友]]
[[Category:吴姓|Category:吴姓]]