{{unreferenced|time=2017-04-15T03:07:12+00:00}}
{{NoteTA|G1=IT|G2=Windows}}
'''Windows CardSpace'''（开发代号：'''InfoCard'''）是[[微软|微软]]Identity Metasystem的客户端软件，是一种身份选择的程序。该程序通过存储用户的[[数字身份|数字身份]]，通过可视的信息卡的形式呈现给用户。CardSpace提供了一个不变的用户界面来帮助他们轻松、安全地在应用程序和网站里使用他们的身份信息。抵制[[钓鱼式攻击|钓鱼式攻击]]也是此程序的设计目标之一。

== 外部链接 ==
<small>
;国际
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20090828211147/http://www.microsoft.com/windows/products/winfamily/cardspace/default.mspx A consumer introduction to Windows CardSpace]
*[http://msdn.microsoft.com/CardSpace Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) CardSpace page] – Developer articles and technical documentation on Windows CardSpace.
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20080915073716/http://netfx3.com/content/WindowsCardspaceHome.aspx Microsoft .NET Framework 3.0 Community (NetFx3)] – CardSpace community site.

;软件开发
*[http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=89183 Microsoft Information Card Kit for ASP.NET 2.0] – [[ASP.NET|ASP.NET]] Relying Party code to support CardSpace.
*[http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=89182 Microsoft Information Card Kit for HTML] – platform-independent JavaScript and CSS code that detects if the client can use Information Cards and provides the corresponding UI support.
*Open Source [http://www.codeplex.com/informationcardruby Ruby] {{Wayback|url=http://www.codeplex.com/informationcardruby |date=20100129193710 }} Relying Party code for accepting Information Cards.
*Open Source [http://www.codeplex.com/informationcardjava Java] {{Wayback|url=http://www.codeplex.com/informationcardjava |date=20100215011917 }} Relying Party code for accepting Information Cards.
*Open Source [https://infocard-demo.labs.pingidentity.com/ C and PHP]{{dead link|date=2017年11月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }} Relying Party code for accepting Information Cards.
*Open Source [http://dacs.dss.ca/ C] {{Wayback|url=http://dacs.dss.ca/ |date=20050312173814 }} Relying Party code for accepting Information Cards and Secure Token Service code for managed Information Cards.
*Open Source [https://web.archive.org/web/20071112023512/http://www.carillon.ca/products/demo-sts.php PHP] Secure Token Service code for managed Information Cards.
*Open Source [https://web.archive.org/web/20130616092249/http://sharpsts.com/ C#] Secure Token Service code for managed Information Cards.

;身份选择器（Identity selectors）
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20081013052617/http://code.bandit-project.org/trac/wiki/DigitalMe Digital Me] – an open source Identity Selector for [[Linux|Linux]] and [[Mac_OS_X|Mac OS X]]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20061107092140/http://www.hccp.org/safari-plug-in.html A plug-in] for Apple's [[Safari|Safari]] implementing an Information Card identity selector.
*[http://www.codeplex.com/IdentitySelector A plug-in] {{Wayback|url=http://www.codeplex.com/IdentitySelector |date=20100210201631 }} for [[Firefox|Firefox]] to activate CardSpace and other identity selectors.

;相关博客
*[http://www.identityblog.com/ Kim Cameron's Identity Weblog] {{Wayback|url=http://www.identityblog.com/ |date=20220517095329 }} – Information from Microsoft's architect for identity.
*[http://self-issued.info/ Mike Jones' blog] {{Wayback|url=http://self-issued.info/ |date=20220515201818 }} – Information on CardSpace, Information Cards, and the Digital Identity from Microsoft's Director of Identity Partnerships.
*[http://blogs.msdn.com/vbertocci/ Vittorio Bertocci's Weblog] {{Wayback|url=http://blogs.msdn.com/vbertocci/ |date=20040526092118 }} – Information on designing and developing with CardSpace from Microsoft's architect evangelist for Windows Server 2008.
*[http://blogs.msdn.com/card/ CardSpace team blog] {{Wayback|url=http://blogs.msdn.com/card/ |date=20100327050539 }} – Information on CardSpace from the CardSpace team itself.
</small>

{{Microsoft Windows components}}

[[Category:.NET|Category:.NET]]