{{PBB|geneid=6387}}
趋化因子'''CXCL12''' 又称'''基质细胞衍生因子－1'''(SDF-1)是小分子的[[细胞因子|细胞因子]]，属于[[趋化因子|趋化因子]]蛋白家族。它有两种形式，SDF-1α/CXCL12a和SDF-1β/CXCL12b<ref>De La Luz Sierra et al. Differential processing of stromal-derived factor-1alpha and beta explains functional diversity. Blood 103:2452-2459, 2004.</ref>。趋化因子有四个保守的半胱氨酸残基形成两对[[双硫键|双硫键]]以构成趋化因子的特殊结构。第一第二半胱氨酸残基之间隔着一个介入氨基酸残基。

趋化因子CXCL12对[[淋巴细胞|淋巴细胞]]有强烈的趋化作用并在发育中起重要作用<ref>Bleul et al. A highly efficacious lymphocyte chemoattractant, stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1). J. Exp. Med. 184: 1101-1109, 1996.</ref>。在胚胎發育中CXCL12引导[[造血干细胞|造血干细胞]]从胎儿[[肝脏|肝脏]]到[[骨髓|骨髓]]的迁徙。CXCL12基因敲除的小鼠往往在胎中或出生后1小时内死亡<ref>Ara et al. Impaired colonization of the gonads by primordial germ cells in mice lacking a chemokine, stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1). Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 100: 5319-5323, 2003.</ref><ref>Ma et al. Impaired B-lymphopoiesis, myelopoiesis, and derailed cerebellar neuron migration in CXCR4- and SDF-1-deficient mice. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 95: 9448-9453, 1998.</ref>。SDF-1α/CXCL12a还可以影响[[神经元|神经元]]的电生理。CXCL12可以在许多组织（包括[[脑|脑]]，[[胸腺|胸腺]]，心，[[肺|肺]]，[[肝|肝]]，[[肾|肾]]，骨髓，[[脾脏|脾脏]]）中表达。

趋化因子CXCL12的受体是[[CXCR4|CXCR4]]<ref>Bleul et al. The lymphocyte chemoattractant SDF-1 is a ligand for LESTR/fusin and blocks HIV-1 entry. Nature 382: 829-833, 1996.</ref>。但是，最近有人认为CXCL12还可以与[[CXCR7|CXCR7]]受体结合<ref>Balabanian et al. The chemokine SDF-1/CXCl12 binds to and signals through the orphan receptor RDC1 in T lymphocytes. J Biol Chem 280:35760-35766, 2005.</ref>。

== 参考文献 ==
<div class="references-small">
<references />
</div>

{{细胞因子}}

[[Category:细胞因子|Category:细胞因子]]
[[Category:免疫学|Category:免疫学]]