{{PBB|geneid=2919}}
'''CXCL1'''（{{lang-en|Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1}}）是一小分子的[[细胞因子|细胞因子]]属于CXC[[趋化因子|趋化因子]]家族<ref name=mos>Moser B, Clark-Lewis I, Zwahlen R, Baggiolini M. Neutrophil-activating properties of the melanoma growth-stimulatory activity. J Exp Med. 1990 May 1;171(5):1797-802.</ref>。又被称作'''生长调节致癌基因α''' (Growth-regulated oncogene alpha, GROα)<ref name=mos>Moser B, Clark-Lewis I, Zwahlen R, Baggiolini M. Neutrophil-activating properties of the melanoma growth-stimulatory activity. J Exp Med. 1990 May 1;171(5):1797-802.</ref><ref name="#1">Anisowicz, A., Bardwell, L., Sager, R. Constitutive overexpression of a growth-regulated gene in transformed Chinese hamster and human cells. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 84: 7188-7192, 1987.</ref><ref name="#2">Richmond, A., Thomas, H. G. (1988) Melanoma growth stimulatory activity: isolation from human melanoma tumors and characterization of tissue distribution J. Cell. Biochem. 36,185-198</ref>。 趋化因子CXCL1是由[[巨噬细胞|巨噬细胞]]，[[中性粒细胞|中性粒细胞]]和[[上皮细胞|上皮细胞]]表达的<ref>Iida N, Grotendorst GR. Cloning and sequencing of a new gro transcript from activated human monocytes: expression in leukocytes and wound tissue. Mol Cell Biol. 1990 Oct;10(10):5596-9.</ref><ref>Becker S, Quay J, Koren HS, Haskill JS.	Constitutive and stimulated MCP-1, GRO alpha, beta, and gamma expression in human airway epithelium and bronchoalveolar macrophages. Am J Physiol. 1994 Mar;266(3 Pt 1):L278-86.</ref>。趋化因子CXCL1对中性粒细胞有细胞趋化作用<ref name=mos>Moser B, Clark-Lewis I, Zwahlen R, Baggiolini M. Neutrophil-activating properties of the melanoma growth-stimulatory activity. J Exp Med. 1990 May 1;171(5):1797-802.</ref>。CXCL1结合到趋化因子受体[[CXCR2|CXCR2]]上而起细胞趋化作用<ref name="#3">Devalaraja, R. M., Nanney, L. B., Du, J., Qian, Q., Yu, Y., Devalaraja, M. N., Richmond, A. (2000) Delayed wound healing in CXCR2 knockout mice J. Investig. Dermatol. 115,234-244</ref>。人类的CXCL1与许多CXC类的趋化因子基因相邻聚集在第四染色体上<ref name=ric>Richmond A, Balentien E, Thomas HG, Flaggs G, Barton DE, Spiess J, Bordoni R, Francke U, Derynck R. Molecular characterization and chromosomal mapping of melanoma growth stimulatory activity, a growth factor structurally related to beta-thromboglobulin. EMBO J. 1988 Jul;7(7):2025-33.</ref> 。CXCL1的主要作用包括新血管形成、炎症反应、伤口愈合<ref name="#3"/>和肿瘤形成<ref name="#1"/><ref name="#2"/>。

== 参见 ==
*[[CXCR2|CXCR2]]
*[[趋化因子|趋化因子]]

== 参考文献 ==
<div class="references-small">
<references />
</div>

{{细胞因子}}

[[Category:细胞因子|Category:细胞因子]]
[[Category:免疫学|Category:免疫学]]