{{Infobox person 
| name              = 梅建军
| image             = 
| birth_date        = 1962年12月
| birth_place       = 
| death_date        = 
| death_place       = 
| nationality       = {{PRC}}
| occupation        = [[冶金考古学|冶金考古学]]
| employer          = [[李约瑟研究所|李约瑟研究所]]
| alma_mater        = [[北京科技大学|北京科技大学]]<br>[[中国科学技术大学|中国科学技术大学]]<br>[[剑桥大学|剑桥大学]]
| doctoral_advisor  = 
| awards            = 
}}
'''梅建军'''（{{bd|1962年|12月||}}），男，中国冶金学家、科技史学家。

== 生平 ==
梅建军1962年出生。1984年毕业于北京钢铁学院（现[[北京科技大学|北京科技大学]]）冶金物理化学专业，1987年毕业于[[北京科技大学|北京科技大学]]科学技术史专业，1988年获得[[中国科学技术大学|中国科学技术大学]]理学硕士学位，2000年获得[[剑桥大学|剑桥大学]]考古系博士学位。2000年至2004年先后在[[麦克唐纳考古研究所|麦克唐纳考古研究所]]、[[李约瑟研究所|李约瑟研究所]]和[[东京国立博物馆|东京国立博物馆]]进行博士后工作。2004年回到[[中国|中国]]担任[[北京科技大学|北京科技大学]]教授，2013年被[[北京科技大学|北京科技大学]]聘任为[[长江学者讲座教授列表|长江学者讲座教授]]，2014年1月起担任[[剑桥大学|剑桥大学]][[李约瑟研究所|李约瑟研究所]]所长<ref name="Needham">{{cite web |url=http://www.nri.org.uk/Jian_Jun_Mei.html |title=Jianjun Mei 梅建军 |publisher=Needham Research Institute |date= |accessdate=2015-05-14 |archive-date=2016-04-25 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160425074851/http://www.nri.org.uk/Jian_Jun_Mei.html |dead-url=no }}</ref>和[[剑桥大学丘吉尔学院|剑桥大学丘吉尔学院]]教授。<ref>{{cite web|title=Fellows of the Colleges|url=http://www.admin.cam.ac.uk/reporter/2014-15/special/02/section1.shtml#heading2-3|website=Cambridge University Reporter|accessdate=8 November 2017|archive-date=2020-02-22|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200222225110/http://www.admin.cam.ac.uk/reporter/2014-15/special/02/section1.shtml#heading2-3|dead-url=no}}</ref><ref>{{cite book|last1=Jami|first1=Catherine|author1-link=Cathérine Jami|last2=Cullen|first2=Christopher|last3=Acapo|first3=Sica|title=14th International Conference on the History of Science in East Asia (Paris, 6-10 July 2015) : Book of Abstracts|date=2015|url=https://halshs.archives-ouvertes.fr/halshs-01220174/document|accessdate=8 November 2017|archive-date=2019-04-10|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190410002028/https://halshs.archives-ouvertes.fr/halshs-01220174/document|dead-url=no}}</ref><ref name="Pigott">{{cite journal|last1=Pigott|first1=Vincent C.|title=Copper and Bronze Metallurgy in Late Prehistoric Xinjiang: Its Cultural Context and Relationship with Neighbouring Regions (review)|journal=Asian Perspectives|date=2002|volume=41|issue=1|pages=167–170|doi=10.1353/asi.2002.0009|url=https://muse.jhu.edu/article/2917|accessdate=8 November 2017|archive-date=2019-04-10|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190410002029/https://muse.jhu.edu/article/2917|dead-url=no}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|title=专访：中国创新氛围已远超李约瑟期待——访英国李约瑟研究所所长梅建军|url=http://www.xinhuanet.com//tech/2017-10/12/c_1121792466.htm|accessdate=|work=新华网}}</ref>

==著作==
===文章===
*{{Cite journal | doi = 10.1016/j.jas.2015.02.026| title = Archaeometallurgical studies in China: Some recent developments and challenging issues| journal = Journal of Archaeological Science| volume = 56| pages = 221| year = 2015| last1 = Mei | first1 = J. | last2 = Wang | first2 = P. | last3 = Chen | first3 = K. | last4 = Wang | first4 = L. | last5 = Wang | first5 = Y. | last6 = Liu | first6 = Y. }}
* (with Xu Jianwei, Chen Kunlong et al.), "Recent Research on Early Bronze Metallurgy in Northwest China", in Paul Jett (ed.), ''Scientific Research on Ancient Asian Metallurgy''. Washington: Freer Gallery of Arts, 2012, pp. 37–46.
* (with Kunlong Chen and Wei Cao), "Scientific Examination of Shang-Dynasty Bronzes from Hanzhong, Shaanxi Province, China" in ''Journal of Archaeological Science'', 36(9), 2009: 1881-1891.
* "Early Metallurgy and Socio-Cultural Complexity: Archaeological Discoveries in Northwest China", in Bryan K. Hanks and Katheryn M.Linduff (eds.), ''Social Complexity in Prehistoric Eurasia''. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2009, pp. 215–32.
* (with Kunlong Chen, Thilo Rehren, et al.), "Special Alloys from Remote Frontiers: Scientific Study of the Shang Bronzes from Hanzhong, Southwest Shaanxi", ''Journal of Archaeological Science'', 36(10), 2009: 2108-2118.
* "The Material Culture of the Iron Age Peoples in Xinjiang, Northwest China", in Joan Aruz and Ann Farkas (eds), ''The Golden Deer of Eurasia''. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art, 2006, pp. 132–145.
* (with Thilo Rehren), "Copper Smelting from Xinjiang, Northwest China, Part I: Kangcun village, Kuche County, c. 18th century AD", ''Historical Metallurgy'', 39(2), 2005: 96-105.
* "Metallurgy in Bronze Age Xinjiang and its Cultural Context", in Katheryn M. Linduff (ed.), ''Metallurgy in Eastern Eurasia from the Urals to the Yellow River''. Lewiston: The Edwin Mellen Press, 2004, pp. 173–88.
* "Qijia and Seima-Turbino: the Question of Early Contacts between Northwest China and the Eurasian Steppe". ''Bulletin of the Museum of Far Eastern Antiquities'', 75 (2003): 31-54.
* "Cultural interaction between China and Central Asia during the Bronze Age. ''Proceedings of the British Academy'', 121 (2003): 1-39.
* (with Colin Shell), "The Iron Age Cultures in Xinjiang and their Steppe Connections", in Katie Boyle et al. (eds.), ''Ancient Interactions: East and West in Eurasia''. Cambridge: McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research, 2002, pp. 213–234.

===书籍===
* {{cite book|last1=Mei|first1=Jianjun|title=Copper and bronze metallurgy in late prehistoric Xinjiang : its cultural context and relationship with neighbouring regions|date=2000|publisher=Archaeopress|location=Oxford|isbn=9781841710686|series=BAR International Series 865}}
* {{cite book|editor-last1=Mei|editor-first1=Jianjun|editor-last2=Rehren|editor-first2=Thilo|title=Metallurgy and civilisation : Eurasia and beyond : proceedings of the 6th International Conference on the Beginnings of the Use of Metals and Alloys (BUMA VI)|date=2009|publisher=Archetype|location=London|isbn=9781904982494}}

== 参考来源 ==
{{Reflist}}

{{Navboxes 
| title  = 梅建军在[[中国科学技术史学会|中国科学技术史学会]]的职务
| list1  =
{{中国科学技术史学会第八届理事会}}
{{中国科学技术史学会第九届理事会}}
}}

{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Mei, Jianjun}}
[[Category:梅姓|J]]
[[Category:北京科技大学校友|Category:北京科技大学校友]]
[[Category:中国科学技术大学校友|Category:中国科学技术大学校友]]
[[Category:剑桥大学校友|Category:剑桥大学校友]]
[[Category:北京科技大学教授|Category:北京科技大学教授]]
[[Category:剑桥大学教师|Category:剑桥大学教师]]
[[Category:长江学者讲座教授|Category:长江学者讲座教授]]
[[Category:中国冶金学家|Category:中国冶金学家]]
[[Category:中国科学技术史学会副理事长|Category:中国科学技术史学会副理事长]]