{{Infobox_lake
 |湖泊名稱 = 基奧加湖
 |湖泊照片 = Lake Kyoga (NASA).jpg
 |湖泊照片標題 = 2002年衛星影像
 |測深圖 =
 |測深圖標題 =
 |湖泊所在地 =
 |座標 = {{coord|1|30|N|33|0|E|type:waterbody_region:UG|display=inline,title}}
 |湖泊類別 =
 |流入 =
 |流出 =
 |集水區面積 = 75,000平方公里
 |集水區國家 = [[烏干達|烏干達]]
 |湖泊長度 = 約200公里
 |湖泊闊度 =
 |湖泊面積 = 1,720平方公里
 |平均深度 =
 |最深深度 = 5.7米
 |水體體積 =
 |湖水停留時間 =
 |湖岸線長度 =
 |海拔高度 = 914米
 |湖中島嶼 =
 |湖邊城鎮 =
}}

'''基奧加湖'''（{{lang-en|'''Lake Kyoga'''}}）是[[烏干達|烏干達]]中部的大型[[淡水湖|淡水湖]]，面積1,720平方公里，海拔914米，屬於[[大湖地區|大湖地區]]的水體系統。基奧加湖大部分區域的水深大於4米，最大深度約5.7米，水深少於3米的地區長滿[[睡蓮科|睡蓮]]，[[紙莎草|紙莎草]]和[[鳳眼藍|鳳眼藍]]則在沼澤狀的湖邊生長，湖中有46種魚類和少數[[鱷魚|鱷魚]]。1997至1998年的[[厄爾尼諾現象|厄爾尼諾現象]]帶來的大量雨水使水位急升，紙莎草和鳳眼藍堵塞湖泊的出口處，湖水氾濫面積580平方公里，2004年[[埃及|埃及]]政府向烏干達援助13億美元以控制水流。



==參考文獻==
* DWD (2002) ''El Niño preparedness for Lake Kyoga and other flood prone areas of Uganda.'' Directorate of Water Development. Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, Entebbe, Uganda.
* ILM (2004) ''Support to the Management of Sudd Blockage on Lake Kyoga.'' Produced for the Integrated Lake Management Project by Environmental Impact Assessment Centre of Finland, EIA Ltd. ([https://web.archive.org/web/20050512231017/http://www.eia.fi/kyoga/report/Kyoga_Model_report-EIA_Ltd.pdf online PDF version])
* Twongo, T. (2001) ''The Fisheries and environment of Kyoga Lakes. Fisheries Resources Research Institute (FIRRI), Jinja, Uganda.
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20110523141543/http://www.ilec.or.jp/database/afr/afr-15.html World Lake Database entry for Lake Kyoga]

==外部連結==
*[http://www.photius.com/countries/uganda/geography/uganda_geography_lakes_and_rivers.html Lakes and rivers in Uganda] {{Wayback|url=http://www.photius.com/countries/uganda/geography/uganda_geography_lakes_and_rivers.html |date=20200923140617 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20110523141543/http://www.ilec.or.jp/database/afr/afr-15.html Lake Kyoga] (World Lakes Database)
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20110515171041/http://www.eia.fi/kyoga/summary.htm Modelling Lake Kyoga] (Environmental Impact Assessment Centre, Finland)

{{DEFAULTSORT:Kyoga}}
[[Category:烏干達湖泊|Category:烏干達湖泊]]
[[Category:東非大裂谷湖泊|Category:東非大裂谷湖泊]]
[[Category:尼羅河|Category:尼羅河]]
[[Category:淡水湖|Category:淡水湖]]