{{noteTA
|T=zh:基隆迪语; zh-cn:基隆迪语; zh-tw:克倫地語;
|1=zh:基隆迪; zh-cn:基隆迪; zh-tw:克倫地;
|2=zh-cn:基隆迪; zh-tw:克倫地;
}}
{{Infobox language
|name=克倫地語
|nativename=Ikirundi
|states={{flag|Burundi}}<br>{{flag|Uganda}}
|region=[[中部非洲|中部非洲]]
|speakers= 870萬人 {{citation needed|date=November 2011}}(2011年)<br />485萬人(1986年)
|date=2011
|speakers2=485萬人(1986年)
|ethnicity=[[胡圖族|胡圖族]]，[[圖西族|圖西族]]及[[特瓦族|特瓦族]]
|familycolor=Niger-Congo
|fam2=[[大西洋-刚果语族|大西洋-刚果语族]]
|fam3=[[Benue–Congo_languages|Benue–Congo]]
|fam4=[[Bantoid_languages|Bantoid]]
|fam5=[[Bantu_languages|Bantu]]
|fam6=[[Northeast_Bantu|Northeast Bantu]]
|fam7=[[Great_Lakes_Bantu|Great Lakes Bantu]]
|fam8=[[Ruanda-Rundi|Ruanda-Rundi]] (D62)
|nation={{flag|Burundi}}
|iso1=rn
|iso2=run
|iso3=run
|notice=IPA}}

'''基隆迪语'''（Kirundi）是一种[[班图语支|班图语言]]，為[[布隆迪|布隆迪]][[官方语言|官方语言]]之一，在布隆迪有6百万使用者，在[[坦桑尼亚|坦桑尼亚]]、[[刚果_(金)|刚果 (金)]]也有使用。总使用者达460万人。84%的使用者为[[胡图族|胡图族]]。{{le|繆孫規律|Meeussen's rule}}(米尤森規律)在基隆迪语中非常明显。

== 註釋 ==
{{refbegin}}
# Meeussen, A.E. (1959) ''Essai de grammaire Rundi'' Annales du Musée Royal du Congo Belge, Série Sciences Humaines - Linguistique, vol. 24. Tervuren
{{refend}}

== 參考文獻 ==
{{refbegin|2}}
* Broselow, E. & Niyondagara, A.  (1990) [https://archive.org/stream/studiesinlinguis2019901991univ/studiesinlinguis2019901991univ_djvu.txt "Feature geometry of Kirundi palatalization"]. ''Studies in the Linguistic Sciences'' 20: 71-88.
* de Samie. (2009) ''Dictionnaire Francais-Kirundi''. L'Harmattan.  Paris.
* Goldsmith, J. & Sabimana, F.  (1989) ''The Kirundi Verb''.  Modèles en tonologie.  Editions du CNRS. Paris.
* Meeussen, A.E. (1959) ''Essai de grammaire Rundi''. Annales du Musée Royal du Congo Belge, Série Sciences Humaines – Linguistique, vol. 24. Tervuren.
* Myers, S. (1987) ''Tone and the structure of words in Shona''.  PhD dissertation, University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Garland Press. New York.
* Ntihirageza, J.  (1993)  ''Kirundi Palatization and Sibilant Harmony : Implications for Feature Geometry''. Master thesis, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois.
* Philippson, G. (2003) ''Tone reduction vs. metrical attraction in the evolution of Eastern Bantu tone systems''. INALCO. Paris.
* Sagey, E.  (1986)  [http://www.ai.mit.edu/projects/dm/theses/sagey86.pdf ''The Representation of Features and Relations in Non-Linear Phonology''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.ai.mit.edu/projects/dm/theses/sagey86.pdf |date=20220306230759 }}. Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
* Zorc, R. D. & Nibagwire, L.  (2007) ''Kinyarwanda and Kirundi Comparative Grammar''. Dunwoody Press.  Hyattsville.
{{refend}}

==參閱==
*{{le|繆孫規律|Meeussen's rule}}(Meeussen's rule/米尤森規律)
*{{le|達爾法則|Dahl's law}}(Dahl's law/輔音濁化規則)
*[[合音_(語音學)|合音 (語音學)]]

== 外部連結 ==
{{InterWiki|code=rn}}
* [http://www.ethnologue.com/show_language.asp?code=run Ethnologue on Rundi] {{Wayback|url=http://www.ethnologue.com/show_language.asp?code=run |date=20120805125909 }} {{en}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20070321212136/http://www.panafril10n.org/wikidoc/pmwiki.php/PanAfrLoc/RwandaRundi PanAfrican L10n page on Kirundi...] {{en}}
*[https://books.google.com.tw/books?id=qvgxoWHanC8C&pg=PA90&lpg=PA90&dq=Meeussen%27s+rule+%E8%AA%9E%E8%A8%80%E5%AD%B8&source=bl&ots=OvPBgxvBzB&sig=ACfU3U0Ukhq1ZnUL0KQDA8okMR5X5sCeiQ&hl=zh-TW&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjCyc3whNfzAhVTAt4KHdEfA0cQ6AF6BAglEAM#v=onepage&q=Meeussen's%20rule%20%E8%AA%9E%E8%A8%80%E5%AD%B8&f=false 當代語言學概論 - 鍾榮富] {{Wayback|url=https://books.google.com.tw/books?id=qvgxoWHanC8C&pg=PA90&lpg=PA90&dq=Meeussen%27s+rule+%E8%AA%9E%E8%A8%80%E5%AD%B8&source=bl&ots=OvPBgxvBzB&sig=ACfU3U0Ukhq1ZnUL0KQDA8okMR5X5sCeiQ&hl=zh-TW&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjCyc3whNfzAhVTAt4KHdEfA0cQ6AF6BAglEAM#v=onepage&q=Meeussen's%20rule%20%E8%AA%9E%E8%A8%80%E5%AD%B8&f=false |date=20220414201047 }}
*[http://yellingstone.info/?p=2631 从基库尤语动词不定式开始谈起] {{Wayback|url=http://yellingstone.info/?p=2631 |date=20220331065035 }}

{{lang-stub}}

{{Authority control}}
[[Category:布隆迪语言|Category:布隆迪语言]]
[[Category:坦桑尼亚语言|Category:坦桑尼亚语言]]
[[Category:刚果民主共和国语言|Category:刚果民主共和国语言]]
[[Category:乌干达语言|Category:乌干达语言]]
[[Category:班图语支|Category:班图语支]]