{{Infobox organization
|name          = 美國紅十字會
|logo          = American Red Cross logo.svg
|image         = Headquarters building of the American Red Cross, Washington, D.C LCCN2011632232.tif
|caption       = 美國紅十字會在華盛頓的總部
|size          = 250
|formation     = {{start date and age|1881|5|21}}
|founder       = {{le|克萊拉·巴頓||Clara Barton}}
|status        =  美國的手段性組織和{{le|政治團體|Body politic|法人團體}}<ref>{{USC|36|300101}}</ref>
|purpose       = [[人道援助|人道援助]]
|headquarters  = {{le|美國紅十字會國家總部|American Red Cross National Headquarters}}<br />美國[[华盛顿哥伦比亚特区|华盛顿哥伦比亚特区]]
|region_served = 美國
|leader_title  = 會長
|leader_name   = {{le|蓋爾·J·麥戈文|Gail J. McGovern}}
|main_organ    = Board of Governors
|revenue       = US$2,714,189,000 (2017)<ref name="financialstatement">{{Cite web|url= http://www.govwiki.info/pdfs/Non-Profit/DC%20American%20National%20Red%20Cross%202017.pdf|title= American Red Cross 2017 Audit and Consolidated Financial Statements|access-date= 2018-09-05|archive-url= https://web.archive.org/web/20180513152545/http://www.govwiki.info/pdfs/Non-Profit/DC%20American%20National%20Red%20Cross%202017.pdf|archive-date= 2018-05-13}}</ref>
|website       = {{url|www.redcross.org}}
}}
'''美國紅十字會'''（{{lang-en|American Red Cross}}，簡稱{{lang|en|ARC}}）或稱為'''美國國家紅十字會'''（{{lang-en|The American National Red Cross}}）<ref>{{cite web|title=Congressional Charter of the American Red Cross|date=May 2007|url=http://www.redcross.org/images/MEDIA_CustomProductCatalog/m4240124_charter.pdf|accessdate=2020-11-20|archive-date=2018-07-13|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20180713021140/http://www.redcross.org/images/MEDIA_CustomProductCatalog/m4240124_charter.pdf|dead-url=no}}</ref>，是提供緊急援助、救災和防災教育的美國人道主義組織。它是[[国际红十字与红新月运动|紅十字會與紅新月會國際聯合會]]和美國[[国际红十字与红新月运动|国际红十字与红新月运动]]國際會的指定美國分支機構。

該組織主要提供相關服務和開發計劃。<ref>{{Cite web|title = What We Do {{!}} Red Cross {{!}} Disaster Relief, Emergency Management|url = http://www.redcross.org/what-we-do|website = American Red Cross|accessdate = 2015-09-18|archive-date = 2018-07-19|archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20180719122054/http://www.redcross.org/what-we-do|dead-url = no}}</ref>

== 延伸閱讀 ==
* Bane, Suda Lorena, and Ralph Haswell Lutz, eds. ''Organization of American Relief in Europe, 1918–1919'' (Stanford University Press, 1943). 
* Davison, Henry P. ''The American Red Cross in the Great War'' (The Macmillan Company, 1919).
* Dulles, Foster Rhea. ''The American Red Cross: A History.'' (New York: Harper and Brothers, 1950).
* Egan, Timothy B. and Thanousone Pravongviengkham.  "American Red Cross: A History and Analysis" (Defense Technical Information Center, 2016) [https://ia802808.us.archive.org/15/items/DTIC_AD1030846/DTIC_AD1030846.pdf online]
* Fike, Claude E. "The Influence of the Creel Committee and the American Red Cross on Russian-American Relations, 1917-1919." ''Journal of Modern History'' 31#2 (1959): 93-109. [http://www.jstor.org/stable/1875598 online].
* Irwin, Julia. ''Making the World Safe: The American Red Cross and a Nation's Humanitarian Awakening.'' New York: Oxford University Press, 2013.
* Irwin, Julia. "The American Red Cross in Great War-Era Europe, 1914–1922." ''The Tocqueville Review'' 38.2 (2017): 117–131.
* Irwin, Julia F. “Teaching ‘Americanism with a World Perspective’: The Junior Red Cross in the U.S. Schools from 1917 to the 1920s.” ''History of Education Quarterly;; 53#3 (2013), pp. 255–279. [https://www.jstor.org/stable/42704875 online]
* Irwin, Julia F. “Nation Building and Rebuilding: The American Red Cross in Italy during the Great War.” ''Journal of the Gilded Age and Progressive Era'' 8#3 2009, pp. 407–439 [https://www.jstor.org/stable/40542839 online]
* Jones, Marian Moser. ''The American Red Cross From Clara Barton to the New Deal.'' (Johns Hopkins University Press; 2013).
* Jones, Marian Moser. “The American Red Cross and Local Response to the 1918 Influenza Pandemic: A Four-City Case Study.” ''Public Health Reports '' vol. 125, 2010, pp. 92–104. [https://www.jstor.org/stable/41435303 online]
* Kind-Kovács, Friederike. "The Great War, the child’s body and the American Red Cross." ''European Review of History: Revue européenne d'histoire'' 23.1-2 (2016): 33–62, child-relief activities in Hungary 1919. https://doi.org/10.1080/13507486.2015.1121971
* Rodogno, Davide. “The American Red Cross and the International Committee of the Red Cross: Humanitarian Politics and Policies in Asia Minor and Greece (1922–1923).” ''First World War Studies'' 5#1  (2014): 83–99
* Rozario, Kevin. “'Delicious horrors': Mass culture, the Red Cross, and the appeal of modern american humanitarianism." ''American Quarterly'' (2003) 55#3.  417–455. [https://muse.jhu.edu/article/46647 online]
* Schmidt, Cheryl K. "In Our Community: American Red Cross Nursing: Essential to Disaster Relief." ''American Journal of Nursing'' 104#8 (2004): 35–38. [https://www.jstor.org/stable/29746095 online].
* Whelden, Lynne Merritt. ''How to Play During a War: A Free Spirit's Life in Letters'' (Canton, PA: Lynne Whelden Productions; 2007).

== 參考資料 ==
{{Reflist|30em}}

== 外部連結 ==
{{Commons category|American Red Cross}}
* {{official website|https://www.redcross.org/}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:American Red Cross}}
[[Category:美國紅十字會|]]
[[Category:1881年建立的組織|Category:1881年建立的組織]]
[[Category:國會金質獎章獲得者|Category:國會金質獎章獲得者]]
[[Category:美国志愿者团体|Category:美国志愿者团体]]