{{expand|time=2014-09-06T02:24:54+00:00}}
{{Infobox Cemetery
|name = 美国国会墓园 
|image = Liz and Mary Hall CC.JPG 
|imagesize = 
|caption = 
|建立于 = 1807年4月4日
|国家 = [[美國|美國]] 
|地点 = [[华盛顿哥伦比亚特区|华盛顿哥伦比亚特区]]
|内型 = 私立 
|所有人 = [[华盛顿教区基督教堂|Christ Church]]
|面积 = {{convert|35.75|英亩|sigfig=2}}
|graves=
|website = [http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/ 官方網站]
|findagrave = [http://www.findagrave.com/php/famous.php?page=cem&FScemeteryid=104430 Findagrave]
|political =
|nrhp = 
{{Infobox NRHP
  | name = 美国国会公墓
  | embed = yes
  | nrhp_type = nhl
  | 地址= 1801 E　St., SE., [[Washington,_District_of_Columbia|Washington, District of Columbia]]
  | lat_degrees = 38
  | lat_minutes = 52
  | lat_seconds = 52
  | lat_direction = N
  | long_degrees = 76
  | long_minutes = 58
  | long_seconds = 38
  | long_direction = W
  | coord_display = inline,title
  | coord_parameters = region:US-DC_type:landmark
  | locmapin = United States Washington, D.C. east
  | built = 1807
  | architect = [[Benjamin_Latrobe|Benjamin Latrobe]], others
  | architecture =
  | added = June 23, 1969<ref name = nris/>
  | designated_nrhp_type  = June 14, 2011
  | area = {{convert|30|acre|1}}
  | governing_body = Private 
  | refnum = 69000292<ref name="nris">{{NRISref|version=2010a}}</ref>
}}
}}

'''美国国会墓园'''又称为'''美国国会公墓'''、'''华盛顿教区墓葬园'''，是一个历史悠久、现在仍开放的墓地，位于美国首都华盛顿特区SE区E街1801号（1801 E Street, SE, in [[Washington,_D.C.|Washington, D.C.]]），背靠[[国会山|国会山]]，面邻[[安那考斯迪亚河|安那考斯迪亚河]]西岸，毗邻[[宾夕法尼亚大道|宾夕法尼亚大道]]，明堂开阔，风水甚佳，它是美国唯一的成立于[[南北战争|南北战争]]前，共美国国运上乘逾二百余年，有着美国国家印记的国家级公墓。<ref name = "NHL nom p4">National Historic Landmark Nomination, p. 4</ref>

美国国会公墓埋葬着超过六万五千个人或纪念物，这里包括许多在19世纪早期美国国家先贤和华盛顿市的缔造者。<ref name="congressional cemetery website"/>

虽然美国国会公墓属私有，但是美国政府拥有806个葬位归属于美国联邦政府[[美國退伍軍人事務部|退伍军人部]]管理。位于公墓西北方1.5英里（2.4公里）的美国国会与公墓有着深厚的历史渊源。<ref>[http://www.cem.va.gov/cems/lots/congressional.asp Department of Veterans Affairs], Congressional Cemetery Government Lots, accessed April 27, 2012.</ref>历经两百多年，此公墓仍有墓地出售和落葬活动。公墓近[[華盛頓地鐵|DC地铁站]]，下[[Potomac_Avenue_(WMATA_station)|Potomac Avenue站]]往东三个街区，或[[Stadium-Armory_(WMATA_station)|Stadium-Armory站]]往南两个街区。

许多在华盛顿国会任上去世的[[美国国会议员|美国国会议员]]都埋葬于此公墓。其他的有知名大地主和投机商人，房地产商人和建筑师，印第安人外交官，华盛顿市长，南北战争老兵，和19世纪一些于政府无关联的墓葬。

据统计，这里先后曾经埋葬过美国第6任总统约翰·昆西·亚当斯，美国第9任总统威廉·亨利·哈里森，第12任美国总统扎卡里·泰勒，现在仍埋葬着一位美国[[美国副总统|副总统]]乔治·克林顿，一位[[美國最高法院大法官|美国最高法院法官]]，六位[[美国内阁|美国政府内阁]]部长级成员，十九位[[美国参议院|联邦参议员]]，七十一位[[美国众议院|联邦众议员]]（含一位前[[美國眾議院議長|众议院领袖]]），以及美国在历次战争中牺牲的军人，还有[[director_of_the_Federal_Bureau_of_Investigation|联邦调查局第一任局长]][[約翰·埃德加·胡佛|約翰·埃德加·胡佛]]。<ref name="congressional cemetery website">{{cite web |title=Congressional Cemetery Website |url=http://www.congressionalcemetery.org}}</ref>此公墓于1969年6月23日被列入[[國家史蹟名錄|美国国家史迹名录]]，并于2011年入选[[美国国家历史名胜|美国国家历史名胜]]。<ref name="NHL designation">{{cite web|title=National Register of Historic Places listings for June 24, 2011|url=http://www.nps.gov/history/nr/listings/20110624.htm|publisher=[[National_Park_Service|National Park Service]]|date=June 24, 2011|accessdate=June 24, 2011}}</ref>

==历史==

===奠基===

===扩展===

===萧条和复兴===

==纪念碑和建筑物==

==著名葬礼==
一些国家级和其他场面宏大葬礼曾经在此举行。这些葬礼通常有漫长的送葬队伍，由白宫或者国会山开始，沿着宾夕法尼亚大道至E街SE，后转向墓地。一部分路面由国会特别拨款为送葬设计。这些规格和制式是以后[[State_funerals_in_the_United_States|美国国葬]]的基础形制，比方说林肯总统和约翰肯尼迪总统的国葬。<ref>Johnson and Johnson, Chapter 2, "The Grand Procession to the National Burial Ground."</ref>

这些葬礼包括：
*美国副总统[[乔治·克林顿|乔治·克林顿]]，1812年4月22日。送葬队伍包括美国总统[[詹姆斯·麦迪逊|詹姆斯·麦迪逊]]和两院议员。<ref>[http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/vice-president-george-clinton Vice President George Clinton] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110817052556/http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/vice-president-george-clinton |date=2011-08-17 }}, reprinted from The [[National_Intelligencer|National Intelligencer]] by the Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery, accessed April 27, 2012.</ref>
*美国第9任总统[[威廉·亨利·哈里森|威廉·亨利·哈里森]]，1841年。After services at the [[White_House|White House]] the procession included the new President [[John_Tyler|John Tyler]] and former President John Quincy Adams, as well as officers and members of the Congress and the state legislature of Maryland, extending over two miles long.<ref>[http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/president-william-henry-harrison President William Henry Harrison] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20141012172257/http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/president-william-henry-harrison |date=2014-10-12 }}, reprinted from The [[National_Intelligencer|National Intelligencer]] by the Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery, accessed April 27, 2012.</ref>
*埃布尔·帕克·厄普舍（Abel Paker Upshur），美国律师、政治家，曾任美国海军部长和美国国务卿，[[Thomas_W._Gilmer|Thomas W. Gilmer]], Secretary of the Navy, Commodore [[Beverly_Kennon|Beverly Kennon]], Chief of the Bureau of Construction & Equipment, [[David_Gardiner_(John_Tyler_family)|David Gardiner]], former Senator from New York, victims of a February 28, 1844 explosion on the [[USS_Princeton_(1843)|USS ''Princeton'']]. [[Virgil_Maxcy|Virgil Maxcy]], Chargé d'Affaires of the United States to Belgium was also killed in the explosion, but was buried separately in his family plot.<ref>[http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/secretary-abel-p-upshur-secretary-thomas-wgilmer-commodore-beverly-kennon-hon-david-gardiner-hon-vir Victims of the USS Princeton explosion] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131009095803/http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/secretary-abel-p-upshur-secretary-thomas-wgilmer-commodore-beverly-kennon-hon-david-gardiner-hon-vir |date=2013-10-09 }}, reprinted from February 29, 1844 edition of The [[National_Intelligencer|National Intelligencer]] by the Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery, accessed April 27, 2012.</ref>
*美国第六任总统[[约翰·昆西·亚当斯|约翰·昆西·亚当斯]]，1848年2月28日下葬。<ref>[http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/president-john-quincy-adams President John Quincy Adams] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131009093956/http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/president-john-quincy-adams |date=2013-10-09 }} includes reprints from 1848 editions of the National Intelligencer,  Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery, accessed May 2, 2012.</ref>
*多莉·麦迪逊，前第一夫人，1849年7月16日下葬。President Zachary Taylor and his Cabinet attended services at [[St._John's_Episcopal_Church,_Lafayette_Square_(Washington,_D.C.)|St. John's Church]] in [[Lafayette_Square_Historic_District_(Washington,_D.C.)|Lafayette Square]], whence the cortege proceeded to the Public Vault at the Congressional Cemetery.<ref>[http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/first-lady-dolley-p-madison First Lady Dolley P. Madison] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131009095657/http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/first-lady-dolley-p-madison |date=2013-10-09 }} includes reprints from 1849 editions of the National Intelligencer,  Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery, accessed May 2, 2012.</ref>
*美国第12任美国总统[[扎卡里·泰勒|扎卡里·泰勒]]，1850年7月13日下葬。Proceeding from the [[White_House|White House]], the cortege included the new President [[Millard_Fillmore|Millard Fillmore]], the Cabinet, the officers and members of both houses of Congress, numerous military units, and Taylor's favorite horse, Old Whitey.<ref>[http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/president-zachary-taylor President Zachary Taylor] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131011091659/http://www.congressionalcemetery.org/president-zachary-taylor |date=2013-10-11 }} includes reprints from 1850 editions of the National Intelligencer,  Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery, accessed May 2, 2012.</ref>

== 参考文献 ==
{{reflist|2}}
{{Washington DC landmarks}}

[[Category:1807年建立|Category:1807年建立]]
[[Category:葬于美国国会公墓|Category:葬于美国国会公墓]]
[[Category:华盛顿哥伦比亚特区墓地|Category:华盛顿哥伦比亚特区墓地]]
[[Category:美國國家公墓|Category:美國國家公墓]]