{{US Constitution article series}}

'''美利坚合众国宪法第四条'''规定了[[美國|美國]]各州的责任、新州的加入，以及联邦和各州的相应权限。其中还包括有{{link-en|劳役逃犯条款|Fugitive Slave Clause}}，这一条款的主要目的是为了防止蓄奴州的黑奴在逃往自由州后就自动成为了自由公民。而旨在废除奴隶制的[[美利坚合众国宪法第十三条修正案|美利坚合众国宪法第十三条修正案]]于1865年12月6日通过后，这一条款就已经没有了意义。

=={{anchor|Section 1}}第一款：充分信任和尊重==
{{main|充分信任和尊重条款}}
{{quote|Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.}}
*译文：每个州对于他州的公共法律、案卷和司法程序，应给予充分信任和尊重。国会得以一般法律规定这类法律、案卷和司法程序如何证明和具有的效力<ref name=USC25>{{cite book |title=美国宪政历程：影响美国的25个司法大案 |author1=任东来 |author2=陈伟 |author3=白雪峰 |author4=Charles J. McClain |author5=Laurene Wu McClain |publisher=中国法制出版社 |isbn=7-80182-138-6 |page=568|date=2004年1月}}</ref><ref name=Li1999>{{cite book |author=李道揆 |title=美国政府和政治（下册） |publisher=商务印书馆 |year=1999 |pages=775-799}}</ref>。

第一款要求各州“对于他州的公共法律、案卷和司法程序”“给予充分信任和尊重”，并且国会可以通过法律来保证其效力。

[[联邦最高法院|联邦最高法院]]在1813年对“米尔斯诉杜里案”（"Mills v. Duryee"，{{ussc|Source=j|1t1|481|1813|Cranch|7}}）的判决中裁定，任何一州内法庭的判决结果，其他各州法院也必须给予认可；联邦法院也不能够重审任何州法院中已经裁决的案件。之后，[[美国首席大法官|首席大法官]][[约翰·马歇尔|约翰·马歇尔]]进一步补充建议各州法院的司法判决必须被其他州法院视为最终判决而接受。

不过在1839年的{{link-en|麦克艾尔摩尔诉科恩案|McElmoyle v. Cohen}}（{{ussc|Source=j|38|312|1839|Pet.|13}}）中，[[南卡罗莱纳州|南卡罗莱纳州]]的一个判决由于其申请进入[[乔治亚州|乔治亚州]]执行的时限已过，因此被拒绝执行。联邦最高法院在这个案子上支持了乔治亚州的意见，指出根据[[程序法|程序法]]，南卡罗莱纳州应该在法院依法规定的时限内进入乔治亚州执法。

=={{anchor|Section 2}}第二款：各州的责任==
==={{anchor|Section 2, Clause 1}}第1节：特权和豁免权===
{{main|特权和豁免权条款}}
{{quote|The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.}}
*译文：每个州的公民享有各州公民的一切特权和豁免权<ref name=USC25 /><ref name=Li1999 />。

==={{anchor|Section 2, Clause 2}}第2节：引渡逃犯===
{{main|引渡条款}}
{{quote|A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on demand of the executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime.}}
*译文：在任何一州被控告犯有叛国罪、重罪或其他罪行的人，逃脱法网而在他州被寻获时，应根据他所逃出之州行政当局的要求将他交出，以便解送到对犯罪行为有管辖权的州<ref name=USC25 /><ref name=Li1999 />。

==={{anchor|Section 2, Clause 3}}第3节：劳役逃犯条款===
{{main|劳役逃犯条款}}
{{quote|No Person held to Service or Labour in one State, under the Laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law or Regulation therein, be discharged from such Service or Labour, but shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labour may be due.}}
*译文：根据一州法律须在该州服劳役或劳动的人，如逃往他州，不得因他州的法律或规章而免除此种劳役或劳动，而应根据有权得到此劳役或劳动之当事人的要求将他交出<ref name=USC25 /><ref name=Li1999 /><ref>这一节已经被1865年1月31日提出，同年12月6日批准的[[美利坚合众国宪法第十三条修正案|美利坚合众国宪法第十三条修正案]]代替。</ref>。

=={{anchor|Section 3}}第三款：新州、联邦领地和财产==
{{quote|New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no new States shall be formed or erected within the Jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be formed by the Junction of two or more States, or parts of States, without the Consent of the Legislatures of the States concerned as well as of the Congress.}}
*译文：新州得由国会接纳加入本联邦；但不得在任何其他州的管辖范围内组成或建立新州；未经有关州议会和国会的同意，也不得合并两个或两个以上的州或几个州的一部分组成新州<ref name=USC25 /><ref name=Li1999 />。

根据第三款，国会可以接受新的州加入联邦。

==={{anchor|Section 3, Clause 2|Territorial_Clause}}第2节：联邦领地和财产条款===
{{quote|The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to Prejudice any Claims of the United States, or of any particular State.}}
*译文：国会对于属于合众国的领土或其他财产，有权处置和制定一切必要的条例和规章。对本宪法条文不得作有损于合众国或任何一州的任何权利的解释<ref name=USC25 /><ref name=Li1999 />。

=={{anchor|Section 4}}第四款：联邦的责任==
==={{anchor|Section 4, Clause 1}}第1节：共和政体===
{{anchor|保证条款}}
{{quote|The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government, [...]}}
*译文：合众国保证本联邦各州实行共和政体<ref name=USC25 /><ref name=Li1999 />，……

==={{anchor|Section 4, Clause 2}}第2节：对抗侵略和平定内乱===
{{quote|[...] and [the United States] shall protect each of them [the States] against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic Violence.}}
*译文：（合众国……）保护每州免遭入侵，并应州议会或州行政长官（在州议会不能召开时）的请求平定内乱<ref name=USC25 /><ref name=Li1999 />。

这一节要求合众国保护各州免受入侵，并应各州议会或州行政长官（在州议会不能召开时）的请求平定内乱，这一规定曾于[[1967年底特律骚乱|1967年底特律骚乱]]期间被讨论，但最终并没有使用。

==注释==
{{Reflist}}

==延伸阅读==
*Adam H. Kurland, ''The Guarantee Clause as a Basis for Federal Prosecutions of State and Local Officials'', 62 {{smallcaps|S. Cal. L. Rev.}} 369 (1989).

== 外部链接 ==
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20081211012558/http://www.gpoaccess.gov/constitution/browse.html Kilman, Johnny and George Costello (Eds). (2000). ''The Constitution of the United States of America: Analyis and Interpretation.'']
*[http://www.law.cornell.edu/anncon/html/art4toc_user.html CRS Annotated Constitution: Article 4]

{{美国宪法}}

[[Category:美国宪法条文|Category:美国宪法条文]]
[[Category:美国联邦制|Category:美国联邦制]]
[[Category:美国政府|Category:美国政府]]