<!-- itics of Thailand}} -->
'''愛祖國黨'''（{{lang-th|พรรคเพื่อแผ่นดิน}}，[[拉丁字母|拉丁字母]]：''Phak Pua Paendin''）是當今[[泰王國|泰王國]]的政黨，其成立於2007年9月11日。 

由于在[[2006年泰國軍事政變|2006年泰國軍事政變]]後原執政黨[[泰愛泰黨|泰愛泰黨]]被[[泰國憲章法庭|泰國憲章法庭]]勒令解散，一些前泰國內閣成員在前外長[[Surakiart_Sathirathai|素拉傑]]等人的帶領下等組成新黨以角逐[[2007年泰國國會選舉|國會大選]]。鑒于吸取往前教訓，該黨選用非前泰愛泰黨人擔任領袖，致力走非同於他信政治綱領的政治中間路線，並吸取大量先前他信的反對派入黨。<!--political stance is neither pro-[[Thaksin|Thaksin]] nor anti-[[Thaksin|Thaksin]] and located in the [[Centrism|centre]] of the political system. The party emerged as one of amongst many parties to be considered as the third choice. Its most notable members include Thaksin's former foreign minister [[Surakiart_Sathirathai|Surakiart Sathirathai]], [[Suranand_Vejjajiva|Suranand Vejjajiva]] and [[Preecha_Laohaphongchana|Preecha Laohaphongchana]]; it is composed of both former TRT members and former TRT opponents. Since former TRT members are banned from politics for five years, a non-TRT member will have to lead the party in the [[Thai_general_election,_2007|2007 election]]--><ref>{{Cite web |url=http://english.people.com.cn/90001/90777/6260255.html |title=《人民日報》消息 |accessdate=2007-12-26 |archive-date=2007-09-19 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20070919125558/http://english.people.com.cn/90001/90777/6260255.html |dead-url=no }}</ref> <!--[[Suwit_Khunkitti|Suwit Khunkitti]] and [[Watchara_Punnachet|Watchara Punnachet]] have been elected party leader and party's secretary general respectively. The party appointed [[Vatana_Asavahame|Vatana Asavahame]] as the party chairman, and Police General [[Pracha_Promnok|Pracha Promnok]] as party chief adviser-->[[Panlop_Pinmanee|潘洛將軍]]（''Panlop Pinmanee''）被邀請出任該黨的國內外安全事務顧問<!--[[]], adviser to the Internal Security Command Operation, accepted to become adviser to the party, overseeing security--><ref> [http://www.nationmultimedia.com/2007/10/18/headlines/headlines_30052942.php 見泰國《國民報（''The Nation''）》2007年10月18日報道] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20071020044419/http://www.nationmultimedia.com/2007/10/18/headlines/headlines_30052942.php |date=2007年10月20日 }}</ref>。

==黨的口號==
為人民帶來幸福與福祉<ref> [http://www.nationmultimedia.com/2007/10/18/headlines/headlines_30052942.php 泰國《國民報》2007年10月18日報道] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20071020044419/http://www.nationmultimedia.com/2007/10/18/headlines/headlines_30052942.php |date=2007年10月20日 }}</ref> 。

<!-- == 2007 election ==
{{See also|Thai general election, 2007}}
Pua Paendin (For the Motherland) Party leader Suwit Khunkitti vowed to win more than 60 seats in Parliament and promised to implement nine policies to bring happiness and wellbeing to the people.<ref>The Nation, [http://www.nationmultimedia.com/2007/10/18/headlines/headlines_30052942.php</ref>

On [[28_October_2007|28 October 2007]], the party announced the Finance and Tourism team. The finance team consists in the form of Academic Council, chaired by former Deputy Prime Minister, [[Surakiart_Sathirathai|Surakiart Sathirathai]]. Members included former Governor of the Bank of Thailand [[Vijit_Supinich|Vijit Supinich]], former Secretary to the Ministry of Finance [[Supachai_Pisitvanit|Supachai Pisitvanit]], former Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives [[Bunpod_Hongthong|Bunpod Hongthong]] and Finance specialists [[Vichien_Techapaiboon|Vichien Techapaiboon]] and [[Nithit_Pukkanasud|Nithit Pukkanasud]]. Although [[Surakiart_Sathirathai|Surakiart Sathirathai]] was one of 111 TRT executives banned from politics for five years, he said that the Academic Council only provides policy guidelines and is not party of the political party. The tourism team was led by former Tourism Authority of Thailand Governor [[Juthamas_Siriwan|Juthamas Siriwan]] and former senators [[Suradej_Yasawat|Suradej Yasawat]] and [[Jirayu_Vasurut|Jirayu Vasurut]]. All three were also deputy party leaders. Their main poliicy was to make Thailand a hub for tourism with expected earnings of 1.33 trillion baht in [[2011|2011]].

Three days before the [[Thai_general_election,_2007|December 23, 2007 general election]], deputy party leader Juthamas Siriwan resigned from the party amidst a bribery scandal stemming from her tenure as governor of the Tourism Authority of Thailand and president of the [[Bangkok_International_Film_Festival|Bangkok International Film Festival]].<ref>[http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2007/12/20/asia/AS-GEN-Thailand-Hollywood-Arrest.php Hollywood bribery scandal takes spotlight in Thailand, with prime minister vowing justice], Associated Press via International Herald Tribune; retrieved 2007-12-25</ref-->

== 黨領導人==
* 素威（[[Suwit_Khunkitti|Suwit Khunkitti]]） <!--
== Secretary General ==
* [[Watchara_Punnachet|Watchara Punnachet]]

==Party Spokesperson==
* [[Wachiramon_Kunakasemthanawat|Wachiramon Kunakasemthanawat]] -->

==參考==
<references />
<!-- {{-}}
{{Thai political parties}}  -->

==外部連結==
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20111107060338/http://www.ppd.or.th/ 愛祖國黨的網址] {{th}} {{en}}


[[Category:泰國政黨|Category:泰國政黨]]
[[Category:2007年建立的政黨|Category:2007年建立的政黨]]