{{Infobox musical artist <!-- For individuals; see Wikipedia:WikiProject_Musicians -->
| name         = Dieter Bohlen
| background   = solo_singer
| image        = Dieter_Bohlen.jpg
| caption      = Bohlen in 2006
| birth_name   = Dieter Günther Bohlen
| alias        = Countdown G.T.O, Harvey Howard, Steve Benson<ref>{{discogs artist|Steve+Benson|Steve Benson}} (Dieter Bohlen pseudonym)</ref><br />Ryan Simmons<ref>{{discogs artist|Ryan+Simmons|Ryan Simmons}} (Dieter Bohlen pseudonym)</ref>
| birth_date   = {{birth date and age|df=yes|1954|02|07}}
| birth_place  = {{tsl|en|Berne, Germany|伯尔尼（德国）}} 
| death_date   =
| death_place  =
| genre        = [[Pop_music|Pop]], [[Eurodance|Eurodance]], [[Europop|Europop]], [[Euro_disco|Euro disco]]
| occupation   = Songwriter, musician, record producer, singer, composer
| years_active = 1973–现在(歌手)<br />1978–现在(作词作曲制作人)
| label        = [[Bertelsmann_Music_Group|BMG]]
| associated_acts = [[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]] ([[Thomas_Anders|Thomas Anders]]), [[Blue_System|Blue System]], [[C._C._Catch|C. C. Catch]], [[Anna_Garcia|Anna Garcia]] ([[Sheree|Sheree]]), [[Bonnie_Bianco|Bonnie Bianco]], [[Chris_Norman|Chris Norman]], [[Bonnie_Tyler|Bonnie Tyler]], [[Les_McKeown|Les McKeown]], [[Dionne_Warwick|Dionne Warwick]], [[Smokie_(band)|Smokie]], [[Mary_Roos|Mary Roos]], [[Marianne_Rosenberg|Marianne Rosenberg]], [[Nino_de_Angelo|Nino de Angelo]], [[Mark_Medlock|Mark Medlock]], [[Al_Martino|Al Martino]], [[Yvonne_Catterfeld|Yvonne Catterfeld]], [[Touché_(band)|Touche]], [[Tony_Wegas|Tony Wegas]], [[The_Teens|The Teens]], [[Roy_Black_(singer)|Roy Black]], [[Errol_Brown|Errol Brown]], [[Engelbert_Humperdinck_(singer)|Engelbert Humperdinck]], [[Bernd_Clüver|Bernd Clüver]], [[Monza_(band)|Monza]], [[Sunday_(band)|Sunday]], [[Alexander_Klaws|Alexander Klaws]], [[Daniel_Küblböck|Daniel Küblböck]], [[Mehrzad_Marashi|Mehrzad Marashi]], [[Pietro_Lombardi_(singer)|Pietro Lombardi]], [[Sarah_Engels|Sarah Engels]], [[Eric_Styx|Eric Styx]], [[Vanessa_Mai|Vanessa Mai]]
| website      =
| instruments  = [[Vocals|Vocals]], [[Guitar|Guitar]]
}}
'''迪特·京特尔·波伦'''（{{lang|de|Dieter Günther Bohlen}}，{{bd|1954年|2月7日}}）是德国歌曲作者、歌手、音乐人、制作人、企业家、电视名人。波伦以著名的流行重唱组合[[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]]（1983–1987年与1998–2003年），以及女歌手[[C._C._Catch|C.C.Catch]]的歌曲作者与制作人闻名。是{{tsl|en|Deutschland sucht den Superstar|德国寻找超级明星}}（“德国偶像”）节目各季的现场评委与制片人、歌曲创作人。
{{transH}}

==生平==
Bohlen was born in [[Berne,_Germany|Berne]], [[West_Germany|West Germany]], and grew up in [[Oldenburg|Oldenburg]]. His father was a supplier to the construction business. In 1973, Dieter Bohlen was member of the band [[Monza_(German_band)|Monza]]. In 1981 he was member of trio [[Sunday_(band)|Sunday]], and they had a hit "[[Hale_Hey_Louise|Hale Hey Louise]]", which has been covered by [[Ricky_King|Ricky King]] and others. From 1983 to 1987 and from 1998 to 2003, Bohlen was one half of the pop duo [[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]] as producer, songwriter and composer. From 1985 to 1988, he produced and wrote songs for the disco singer [[C._C._Catch|C. C. Catch]].

In 1988, Dieter Bohlen signed 15-year-old singer [[Anna_Garcia|Anna Garcia]] whose stage name was "Sheree".<ref>[http://www.moderntalking.aplus.pl/inni/index.php?strona=sheree.htm "Ronnie Talk to Russia"]</ref> In 1988 she recorded a song "Ronnie – Talk To Russia!" as Sheree,[2] written by German songwriter and former member of Modern Talking, Dieter Bohlen.

After Modern Talking's first split in 1987, Bohlen formed [[Blue_System|Blue System]]. For most projects Bohlen had session singers for the background vocals to produce a high-pitched chorus. He frequently worked in the studio with the producer [[Luis_Rodríguez_(producer)|Luis Rodríguez]]. [[Rivalen_Der_Rennbahn|Rivalen Der Rennbahn]] is a soundtrack written by Bohlen. It was one of the best-selling albums in 1989 in Germany.{{Citation needed|date=July 2016}} Bohlen produced the German boygroup [[Touché_(band)|Touché]] which was founded by one of the group's five members, [[Karim_Maataoui|Karim Maataoui]]. In 1986, Bohlen wrote and produced [[Chris_Norman|Chris Norman]]'s "[[Midnight_Lady|Midnight Lady]]" for an episode of the German crime show ''[[Tatort|Tatort]]''. This song became a major hit in central Europe.

In the 1990s, Bohlen became producer for [[Bonnie_Tyler|Bonnie Tyler]] under [[Hansa_Records|Hansa Records]]. They released three albums; ''[[Bitterblue|Bitterblue]]'', ''[[Angel_Heart_(Bonnie_Tyler_album)|Angel Heart]]'' and ''[[Silhouette_in_Red|Silhouette in Red]]''. Tyler had great success with her single "[[Bitterblue_(song)|Bitterblue]]", which was written and produced by Bohlen.

He has been a judge on all the seasons of the talent show ''[[Deutschland_sucht_den_Superstar|德国寻找超级明星]]'' and has worked with acts discovered in the show, yielding several major hits. He is criticized for controversial and insulting comments ("You sing like a garden gnome on ecstasy", "Your voice sounds like Kermit getting his ass kicked"). Bohlen has also released five books. Two of these are autobiographical and describe his career, romantic involvements and experiences with singers. The first book was an unprecedented success in Germany. Both books were also released as audio books.

In 2006, Bohlen released an album called ''[[Dieter:_Der_Film_(soundtrack)|Dieter: Der Film]]'' that was a soundtrack to the [[Dieter:_Der_Film|movie of the same name]].

In 2011, he founded the clothing label "Needs Clothing" along with Felix Werner.

He has also been a judge the talent show [[Das_Supertalent|Das Supertalent]], the German version of [[Britain's_Got_Talent|Britain's Got Talent]]. He is the only judge to have been in every season of the show.

==个人生活==
Dieter is the son of Edith and Hans Bohlen. His maternal grandmother is originally from [[Königsberg|Königsberg]].<ref>[http://www.aif.ru/culture/article/20210 Солист «Modern Taking» стал продюсером русской группы. ВИДЕО]</ref> He has a sibling, a younger brother named Uwe. He was educated in Oldenburg, Göttingen and Hamburg, culminating in a Business Administration degree.

Bohlen was married to Erika Sauerland from 1983 to 1994 and has three children from the marriage: Marc, Marvin and Marielin.<br>In 1996 he married model and singer [[Verona_Feldbusch|Verona Feldbusch]] but divorced her after thirty days, propelling Verona to celebrity status (she went on to host television shows such as ''Peep'' and ''Veronas Welt''). Later, Bohlen lived with the 1979 born model [[Stefanie_Küster|Stefanie Küster]] until 2006. They have one son, Maurice-Cassian, born mid-2005.

He met his current girlfriend Carina Walz in [[Majorca|Majorca]], Spain, where one of the casting events for ''[[Deutschland_sucht_den_Superstar|Deutschland sucht den Superstar]]'' (the German version of ''[[American_Idol|American Idol]]'' and ''[[Pop_Idol|Pop Idol]]'') was held. They have a daughter, Amelie (born 2011) and a son, Maximilian (born 2013).

Bohlen lives in the village of [[Tötensen|Tötensen]] near Hamburg. He is left-handed, but was forced to learn how to write with his right hand at grammar school. He plays tennis with his left hand because he started tennis after his school years.

==唱片目录==

===德国No. 1 Hits ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
!Year
!Title
!Artist
|-
|rowspan=3|1985
|"[[You're_My_Heart,_You're_My_Soul|You're My Heart, You're My Soul]]"
|rowspan=5|[[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]]
|-
|"[[You_Can_Win_If_You_Want|You Can Win If You Want]]"
|-
|"[[Cheri,_Cheri_Lady|Cheri, Cheri Lady]]"
|-
|rowspan=3|1986
|"[[Brother_Louie_(Modern_Talking_song)|Brother Louie]]"
|-
|"[[Atlantis_Is_Calling_(S.O.S._for_Love)|Atlantis Is Calling (S.O.S. for Love)]]"
|-
|"[[Midnight_Lady|Midnight Lady]]"
|[[Chris_Norman|Chris Norman]]
|-
|rowspan=5|2003
|"We Have a Dream"
|[[Deutschland_sucht_den_Superstar|DSDS Allstars]]
|-
|"Take Me Tonight"
|rowspan=2|[[Alexander_Klaws|Alexander Klaws]]
|-
|"Free Like the Wind"
|-
|"You Drive Me Crazy"
|[[Daniel_Küblböck|Daniel Küblböck]]
|-
|"Für Dich"
|rowspan=2|[[Yvonne_Catterfeld|Yvonne Catterfeld]]
|-
|2004
|"Du hast mein Herz gebrochen"
|-
|rowspan=2|2007
|"[[Now_or_Never_(Mark_Medlock_song)|Now or Never]]"
|rowspan=3|[[Mark_Medlock|Mark Medlock]]
|-
|"You Can Get It"
|-
|2008
|"Summer Love"
|-
|2009
|"Anything but love"
|[[Daniel_Schuhmacher|Daniel Schuhmacher]]
|-
|2010
|"Don't Believe"
|[[Mehrzad_Marashi|Mehrzad Marashi]]
|-
|2011
|"[[Call_My_Name_(Pietro_Lombardi_song)|Call My Name]]"
|[[Pietro_Lombardi_(singer)|Pietro Lombardi]]
|-
|2012
|"Don't Think About Me"
|[[Luca_Hänni|Luca Hänni]]
|}

==作为制作人的作品(选择)==
<!-- *alphabetical list* -->
{{colbegin||20em}}
* [[Peter_Alexander_(Austrian_actor_and_singer)|Peter Alexander]]
* [[Thomas_Anders|Thomas Anders]]
* [[Lory_Bianco|Lory Bianco]]
* [[Roy_Black_(singer)|Roy Black]]
* [[Blue_System|Blue System]]
* [[Errol_Brown|Errol Brown]]
* [[C._C._Catch|C. C. Catch]]
* [[Yvonne_Catterfeld|Yvonne Catterfeld]]
* [[Nino_de_Angelo|Nino de Angelo]]
* [[Sarah_Engels|Sarah Engels]]
* [[Anna_Fantastic|Anna Fantastic]]
* Millane Fernandez
* [[Engelbert_Humperdinck_(singer)|Engelbert Humperdink]]
* [[Ricky_King|Ricky King]]
* [[Alexander_Klaws|Alexander Klaws]]
* [[Daniel_Küblböck|Daniel Küblböck]]
* [[Pietro_Lombardi_(singer)|Pietro Lombardi]]
* [[Les_McKeown|Les McKeown]]
* [[Al_Martino|Al Martino]]
* [[Mark_Medlock|Mark Medlock]]
* [[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]]
* [[Chris_Norman|Chris Norman]]
* Kevin Reinert
* [[Daniel_Schuhmacher|Daniel Schuhmacher]]
* Ricky Shane
* Isabel Soares
* [[Touché_(band)|Touché]]
* [[Indiggo|Indiggo]]
* [[Bonnie_Tyler|Bonnie Tyler]]
* [[Wildecker_Herzbuben|Wildecker Herzbuben]]
* [[Luca_Hänni|Luca Hänni]]
* [[Daniele_Negroni|Daniele Negroni]]
{{colend}}

==获奖==
{{colbegin||30em}}
* 1985: [[Goldene_Stimmgabel|Goldene Stimmgabel]], Most successful composer and producer
* 1989: [[People's_Artist_of_the_USSR|People's Artist of the USSR]]
* 1998: [[Comet_(Musikpreis)|VIVA Comet]] – Lifetime Achievement Award
* 2001: [[Top_of_the_Pops|Top of the Pops]] Award, Top Artist Germany
* 2003: [[German_Book_Prize|German Book Prize]], Second according to the public audience
* 2003: [[Goldene_Feder|Goldene Feder]]
* 2003: [[Media_Control|Media Control]] Award, 25 Jahre Media Control
* 2003: [[GQ|GQ]] Man of the Year
* 2003: [[Unsere_Besten|Unsere Besten]], position No. 30 as the greatest German ever
* 2003: [[Bambi_(Auszeichnung)|Bambi]], Pop National
* 2004: [[Echo_(music_award)|Echo]], best national producer
* 2004: [[Echo_(music_award)|Echo]], Single of the year ''We have a dream''
* 2008: [[Bravo_Otto|Platin-Otto]], Lifetime achievement award
{{colend}}
{{transF}}
==文学作品== 
* Dieter Bohlen, [[Katja_Kessler|Katja Kessler]]: ''Nichts als die Wahrheit'', Heyne, Munich 2002, {{ISBN|3-453-86143-4}}
* Dieter Bohlen, Katja Kessler: ''Hinter den Kulissen'', [[Blanvalet|Blanvalet]], Munich 2003, {{ISBN|3-89830-698-4}}
* Dieter Bohlen: ''Meine Hammer-Sprüche'', Heyne, Munich 2006, {{ISBN|3-453-60045-2}}
* Dieter Bohlen: ''Nur die Harten kommen in den Garten! Der Weg zum Superstar'', Heyne, Munich 2008, {{ISBN|978-3-453-60101-7}}
* Dieter Bohlen: ''Der Bohlenweg – Planieren statt Sanieren'', Heyne 2008, {{ISBN|978-3-453-15535-0}}; also as audio by Random House Audio, spoken by Dieter Bohlen, {{ISBN|978-3-86604-965-9}}

==参考文献==
{{Reflist}}

==外部链接==
* [http://www.laut.de/wortlaut/artists/b/bohlen_dieter/ laut.de:Dieter Bohlen]
* {{discogs artist}}
  
[[Category:德国音乐家|Category:德国音乐家]]