{{noteTA
|G1 = Earthquake
}}
'''365年克里特大地震'''是公元365年7月21日上午發生在[[地中海|地中海]]東部的海底大[[地震|地震]]<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://earthquake.usgs.gov/learning/today/his_07_21.php |title=Today in Earthquake History<!-- Bot generated title --> |accessdate=2010-08-22 |archive-date=2007-03-25 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20070325085617/http://earthquake.usgs.gov/learning/today/his_07_21.php |dead-url=no }}</ref>，地質學家估計這場地震[[里氏地震規模|黎克特制]]達8，對[[希臘|希臘]]中部和南部、[[利比亞|利比亞]]北部、[[塞浦路斯|塞浦路斯]]和[[西西里島|西西里島]]都造成了嚴重破壞，之後引發的巨大[[海嘯|海嘯]]摧毁在地中海東岸[[亞歷山大港|亞歷山大港]]和[[尼羅河三角洲|尼羅河三角洲]]等地區，就導致了有數千人罹難。
==參考文獻==
{{Reflist|2}}

==延伸閱讀==
'''Literary discussion on sources and providentialist tendencies'''
* G. J. Baudy, "Die Wiederkehr des Typhon. Katastrophen-Topoi in nachjulianischer Rhetorik und Annalistik: zu literarischen Reflexen des 21 Juli 365 n.C.", ''JAC'' 35 (1992), 47–82
* M. Henry, "Le témoignage de Libanius et les phénomènes sismiques de IVe siècle de notre ère. Essai d'interprétation', ''Phoenix'' 39 (1985), 36–61
* F. Jacques and B. Bousquet, “Le raz de maree du 21 juillet 365“, ''Mélanges de l'École française de Rome. Antiquité'' (MEFRA), Vol. 96, No.1 (1984), 423–61
* C. Lepelley, "Le presage du nouveau desastre de Cannes: la signification du raz de maree du 21 juillet 365 dans l'imaginaire d' Ammien Marcellin", ''Kokalos'', 36-37 (1990–91) [1994], 359–74
* M. Mazza, "Cataclismi e calamitä naturali: la documentazione letteraria", ''Kokalos'' 36-37 (1990–91) [1994], 307–30

'''Geological discussion'''
* Bibliography in: E. Guidoboni (with A. Comastri and G. Traina, trans. B. Phillips), Catalogue of Ancient Earthquakes in the Mediterranean Area up to the 10th Century (1994)
* D. Kelletat, "Geologische Belege katastrophaler Erdkrustenbewegungen 365 AD im Raum von Kreta", in E. Olhausen and H. Sonnabend (eds), ''Naturkatastrophen in der antiken Welt: Stuttgarter Kolloquium zur historischen Geographie des Altertums'' 6, 1996 (1998), 156–61
* P. Pirazzoli, J. Laborel, S. Stiros, "Earthquake clustering in the Eastern Mediterranean during historical times", ''Journal of Geophysical Research'', Vol. 101 (1996), 6083–6097
* S. Price, T. Higham, L. Nixon, J. Moody, "Relative sea-Ievel changes in Crete: reassessment of radiocarbon dates from Sphakia and West Crete", ''BSA'' 97 (2002), 171–200
* B. Shaw et al., [http://www.nature.com/ngeo/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/ngeo151.html "Eastern Mediterranean tectonics and tsunami hazard inferred from the AD 365 earthquake"], ''Nature Geoscience'' (published online: 9 March 2008), 1–9
* G. Waldherr, "Die Geburt der "kosmischen Katastrophe". Das seismische Großereignis am 21. Juli 365 n. Chr.", ''Orbis Terrarum'' 3 (1997), 169–201

==外部連結==
*[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2008/03/080310-tsunami.html National Geographic: Ancient Mediterranean Tsunami may strike again]{{Wayback|url=http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2008/03/080310-tsunami.html |date=20171008010945 }}
*[http://gsa.confex.com/gsa/2005AM/finalprogram/abstract_96386.htm Stanley, Jean-Daniel & Jorstad, Thomas F. (2005): The 365 A.D. Tsunami Destruction of Alexandria, Egypt]{{Wayback|url=http://gsa.confex.com/gsa/2005AM/finalprogram/abstract_96386.htm |date=20170525095324 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20181004071707/http://odur.let.rug.nl/~drijvers/ammianus/index.htm Ammianus Marcellinus Online Project]

[[Category:尼罗河三角洲|Category:尼罗河三角洲]]
[[Category:希腊地震|Category:希腊地震]]
[[Category:利比亚地震|Category:利比亚地震]]
[[Category:4世纪地震|Category:4世纪地震]]
[[Category:海嘯|Category:海嘯]]
[[Category:365年|Category:365年]]