{{noteTA|G1=足球|G2=FAcup|G3=EPL
|T=zh-hans:伊恩·霍洛韦; zh-hk:伊恩·荷路威;
|1=zh-hans:霍洛韦; zh-hk:荷路威;
|2=zh-hans:伊恩·斯科特·霍洛韦; zh-hk:伊恩·史葛·荷路威;
}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name           = 伊恩·荷路威<br />''Ian Holloway''
| image          = Ian Holloway 03-01-2015 1.jpg
| image_size     = 200
| fullname       = Ian Scott Holloway
| dateofbirth    = {{Birth date and age|1963|3|12|df=y}}
| cityofbirth    = [[布里斯托尔|布里斯托尔]][[Kingswood,_South_Gloucestershire|金斯伍德]]
| countryofbirth = [[英格蘭|英格蘭]]
| height         =
| position       = [[中場|中場]]
| currentclub =
| years1         = 1981–1985 
| clubs1         = [[布里斯托尔流浪者足球俱乐部|布里斯托流浪]]             
| caps1          = 111 
| goals1         = 14
| years2         = 1985–1986 
| clubs2         = [[溫布頓足球會|溫布頓]]                       
| caps2          = 19  
| goals2         = 2
| years3         = 1986–1987 
| clubs3         = [[布伦特福德足球俱乐部|布伦特福德]]                      
| caps3          = 30  
| goals3         = 2
| years4         = 1987      
| clubs4         = → [[托奎联足球俱乐部|托奎联]]                   
| caps4          = 5   
| goals4         = 0
| years5         = 1987–1991 
| clubs5         = [[布里斯托尔流浪者足球俱乐部|布里斯托流浪]]             
| caps5          = 179 
| goals5         = 26
| years6         = 1991–1996 
| clubs6         = [[女王公园巡游者足球俱乐部|女王公园巡游者]] 
| caps6          = 147 
| goals6         = 4
| years7         = 1996–1999 
| clubs7         = [[布里斯托尔流浪者足球俱乐部|布里斯托流浪]]             
| caps7          = 107 
| goals7         = 1
| totalcaps      = 598 
| totalgoals     = 49
| manageryears1  = 1996–2001 
| managerclubs1  = [[布里斯托尔流浪者足球俱乐部|布里斯托流浪]]
| manageryears2  = 2001–2006 
| managerclubs2  = [[女王公园巡游者足球俱乐部|女王公园巡游者]]
| manageryears3  = 2006–2007 
| managerclubs3  = [[普利茅斯足球俱乐部|普利茅斯]]
| manageryears4  = 2007–2008 
| managerclubs4  = [[莱斯特城足球俱乐部|莱斯特城]]
| manageryears5  = 2009–2012 
| managerclubs5  = [[黑池足球會|黑池]]
| manageryears6  = 2012–2013 
| managerclubs6  = [[水晶宫足球俱乐部|水晶宫]]
| manageryears7  = 2014–2015
| managerclubs7  = [[米尔沃尔足球俱乐部|米尔沃尔]]
| manageryears8  = 2016–2018
| managerclubs8  = [[女王公园巡游者足球俱乐部|女王公园巡游者]]
| manageryears9 = 2019–2020
| managerclubs9 = [[格林斯比镇足球俱乐部|格林斯比镇]]
| pcupdate       = 2011年10月21日 (五) 03:11 (UTC)
| ntupdate       = 
}}
'''伊恩·史葛·荷路威'''（{{lang-en|'''Ian Scott Holloway'''}}，{{bd|1963年|3月12日|catidx=Holloway, Ian}}）生於[[英格蘭|英格蘭]][[西南英格蘭|西南部]][[單一管理區|單一管理區]][[布里斯托尔|布里斯托尔]]，是一名前職業足球員，司職[[中場|中場]]，退役後擔任[[領隊_(足球)|領隊]]，曾帶領[[黑池足球會|黑池]]和[[水晶宫足球俱乐部|水晶宫]]升班[[英超|英超]]。

荷路威的球員生涯長達18年，於1981年在家鄉球隊[[布里斯托尔流浪者足球俱乐部|布里斯托流浪]]出道，曾三度效力及上陣接近400場聯賽，其後轉投[[溫布頓足球會|溫布頓]]、[[布伦特福德足球俱乐部|賓福特]]及[[女王公园巡游者足球俱乐部|昆士柏流浪]]，並曾短暫借用到[[托奎联足球俱乐部|托基聯]]，於1996年重返布里斯托流浪後開始擔任球員兼領隊，直到1999年正式退役。全職擔任[[教练|領隊]]後曾任教[[女王公园巡游者足球俱乐部|昆士柏流浪]]、[[普利茅斯足球俱乐部|普利茅夫]]、[[莱斯特城足球俱乐部|莱斯特城]]、[[黑池足球會|黑池]]及[[水晶宫足球俱乐部|水晶宫]]。

暱稱「奧利」（''Ollie''）的荷路威經常在賽後接受訪問時大發議論，眾多的「金句」在球迷間廣泛流傳。

==生平==
<!--
===球員===
A native of [[Kingswood,_South_Gloucestershire|Kingswood]], [[Bristol|Bristol]], Holloway grew up in [[Cadbury_Heath|Cadbury Heath]], where his mother Jean still lives in the same council house. Holloway went to Sir Bernard Lovell School in Oldland Common at the same time that [[Gary_Penrice|Gary Penrice]] was at Chase School for Boys in Mangotsfield.  They still remain close friends today. His father Bill – an amateur footballer – worked as a seaman and a factory worker. Holloway began his playing career as an apprentice with his hometown team [[Bristol_Rovers_F.C.|Bristol Rovers]], turning professional in March 1981 and making his league debut the same year. He usually played on the right side of midfield, and made his name as one of the more promising players in the [[Football_League_Third_Division|Third Division]] (now [[Football_League_One|League One]]). After four seasons at Rovers, he was transferred to [[Wimbledon_F.C.|Wimbledon]] in July 1985 for £35,000.

His stay at Wimbledon was a short one. In March 1986, after less than one year at the club, he was sold to [[Brentford_F.C.|Brentford]] for £25,000, where he also spent just a little over a year. In January 1987 he joined [[Torquay_United_F.C.|Torquay United]] on loan, playing 5 times. In August 1987, after two disappointing years in [[London|London]], Holloway returned to Bristol Rovers for a fee of £10,000.

Back at Rovers, who were now playing "home" games at [[Twerton_Park|Twerton Park]] in [[Bath,_Somerset|Bath]], and under the wing of new Rovers manager [[Gerry_Francis|Gerry Francis]], Holloway flourished. In four seasons, he missed only five games. When Francis was appointed manager of [[Football_League_First_Division|First Division]] side [[Queens_Park_Rangers_F.C.|QPR]] in 1991, one of his first signings was Holloway, for a fee of £230,000 in August 1991. Holloway spent five seasons at QPR, playing more than 150 games for the club, before returning to Bristol Rovers for the third time in August 1996, this time as player-manager.
-->
===領隊===
<!--
;布里斯托流浪
Holloway took over a club that was struggling both on and off the pitch. In his first season in charge of Rovers, he led the club to 17th place in Division Two (now League One). The next season, however, Bristol Rovers gained fifth place and made the [[Football_League_play-offs|playoffs]]. Despite taking a first-leg advantage of 3–1 against Northampton Town, Rovers subsequently lost 3–0 in the second leg and went out 4–3 on aggregate in the semi-finals. The 1998–99 season ended with a somewhat disappointing 13th place. Holloway retired as a player following that season, having played more than 400 matches for Bristol Rovers, to concentrate fully on management. In 1999–2000, his last full season at the club, Rovers finished 7th, narrowly missing the playoffs.

;昆士柏流浪
In February 2001, midway through the 2000–01 season, Holloway was appointed manager of QPR, where he was given the task of keeping the team in Division One. He failed to do so, as QPR finished second from bottom and were relegated to the third level for the first time in 34 years. Despite the relegation, Holloway stayed on and rebuilt the side. After steadying the ship in 2001–02, and a near miss in 2002–03, Holloway and QPR were promoted back to the second level in 2004, finishing second behind [[Plymouth_Argyle_F.C.|Plymouth Argyle]].

Holloway's first full season in [[Football_League_Championship|The Championship]] ended with a respectable 11th place, and during the following season 2005–06, the club continued to hover around mid-table.

Holloway was suspended (sent on gardening leave) as manager by Queens Park Rangers on 6 February 2006. The reason given by the Q.P.R board was that the constant rumours linking Holloway to the vacant managerial position at [[Leicester_City_F.C.|Leicester City]] were causing too many problems for the club.<ref name="QPR suspend Holloway">{{Cite news| title=QPR suspend Holloway| url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/q/qpr/4685138.stm| publisher= [[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]]| date=6 February 2006| accessdate=21 May 2009}}</ref> As it turned out, the Leicester job went to [[Rob_Kelly|Rob Kelly]], and QPR went on to finish 21st, just one place above the relegation positions.

;普利茅夫
On 28 June Holloway became the manager of [[Plymouth_Argyle_F.C.|Plymouth Argyle]], and promised to take the club to the [[Premier_League|Premier League]].<ref name="Holloway has top-flight dream">{{Cite news| title=Holloway has top-flight dream| url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/p/plymouth_argyle/4781671.stm| publisher= [[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]]| date=11 August 2006| accessdate=21 May 2009}}</ref> On 12 August after Plymouth beat [[Sunderland_A.F.C.|Sunderland]] away 2–3; in celebration of his first away win as manager, Holloway offered to buy every one of the 700 fans who made the {{convert|805|mi|km|sing=on}} round trip a drink: ''"Anyone who travelled up there please send me a letter. I would love to buy you a drink."''.<ref name="Holloway offers to buy the drinks">{{Cite news| title=Holloway offers to buy the drinks| url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/gossip_and_transfers/4793239.stm|publisher=[[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]]| date=15 August 2006| accessdate=21 May 2009}}</ref>

Following press speculation, on 21 November 2007, Holloway submitted his resignation to the Plymouth Argyle board, with speculation that he was about to be offered the vacant managerial position at [[Leicester_City_F.C.|Leicester City]].<ref name="Holloway resigns">{{Cite news| title=Holloway resigns| url=http://www.pafc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0,,10364~1172570,00.html| publisher=[[Plymouth_Argyle_F.C.|Plymouth Argyle F.C.]]| date=21 November 2007| accessdate=21 May 2009| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080412023959/http://www.pafc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10364~1172570%2C00.html| archive-date=2008-04-12| dead-url=yes}}</ref> The Plymouth board issued a statement saying he was still employed by Plymouth and tied legally to his contract, and the board's decision on whether or not to accept his resignation would be made on Friday, 23 November. Having agreed a compensation package for his services, he was announced in a press conference by [[Milan_Mandarić|Milan Mandarić]] as Leicester manager on 22 November, signing a three and a half year contract. His departure, however, was met with negativity from Argyle fans.<ref>{{Cite news| title=Holloway appointed Leicester boss| url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/l/leicester_city/7090614.stm| publisher= [[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]]| date=22 November 2007| accessdate=22 November 2007}}</ref><ref>{{Cite news| title=Holloway appointed Leicester boss| url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/main.jhtml?xml=/sport/2007/11/22/sfnholl122.xml| publisher= ''[[Daily_Telegraph|Daily Telegraph]]''| date=22 November 2007| accessdate=22 November 2007 | location=London | first1=Colin | last1=Spiro}}</ref>

After an open top bus tour in Blackpool, after his Blackpool side won promotion to the [[Premier_League|Premier League]] some three years later, Holloway said:<ref name=DMail1281133/>
{{cquote|I had a year out of football and had to think about what went wrong in my life. I was given some decent values from my mum and dad in our council house and one of them was honesty and trust and loyalty, and I forgot to do all that at Plymouth. I left them and I made the biggest mistake of my life. But I ended up here and it was the best thing I have ever done.}}

;李斯特城
Holloway made history when he became the first Leicester manager in over 50 years to win his first league game in charge, beating [[Bristol_City_F.C.|Bristol City]] 2–0.<ref name="Jimbo hails Ollie arrival">{{Cite news| title=Jimbo hails Ollie arrival| url=http://www.lcfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/LatestNews/0,,10274~1175465,00.html| publisher=[[Leicester_City_F.C.|Leicester City F.C.]]| date=25 November 2007| accessdate=25 November 2007| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080309075350/http://www.lcfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/LatestNews/0%2C%2C10274~1175465%2C00.html| archive-date=2008-03-09| dead-url=yes}}</ref>

On 7 February 2008, in a build up to a match against Plymouth at the [[Walkers_Stadium|Walkers Stadium]], Argyle chairman [[Paul_Stapleton|Paul Stapleton]] spoke negatively of Holloway for allowing several high-profile players to leave the club before joining Leicester. A total of five players left Plymouth in the January [[transfer_window|transfer window]], which he claimed was all Holloway's fault.<ref name="Holloway blamed for Argyle exits">{{Cite news| title = Holloway blamed for Argyle exits | url = http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/p/plymouth_argyle/7232135.stm | publisher = [[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]] | date = 7 February 2008 | accessdate = 9 February 2008}}</ref> Holloway, stunned by the claims, had his lawyers look at the statements, while Mandarić accused Stapleton of "[[The_Fox_and_the_Grapes#Sour_grapes|sour grapes]]" over Holloway's move to Leicester, saying Plymouth Argyle should be thankful for what he had achieved during his time there.<ref name="Holloway stunned by Argyle claims">{{Cite news| title=Holloway stunned by Argyle claims| url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/l/leicester_city/7232989.stm| publisher= [[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]]| date=7 February 2008 | accessdate=9 February 2008}}</ref> Plymouth won the match 1–0 as Holloway's former charges came back to haunt him.<ref name="Leicester 0-1 Plymouth">{{Cite news| title=Leicester 0–1 Plymouth| url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/eng_div_1/7223907.stm| publisher= [[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]]| date=9 February 2008| accessdate=27 February 2009}}</ref> Winning just nine out of 32 games, Leicester were relegated from the Championship on 4 May 2008.

On 23 May 2008, following the club's relegation, Holloway and Leicester City parted company by mutual consent. Reflecting on his time at Leicester, he said ''"Leicester City is a marvellous club and I am as devastated as anybody that this great club suffered relegation. I gave 100% to the cause but unfortunately we ran out of time. The fans here are a different class and deserve a lot, lot better. I'd like to wish everyone connected with Leicester City well for the future – the club will always remain close to my heart."''<ref name="Leicester & Holloway part company">{{Cite news| title=Leicester & Holloway part company| url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/l/leicester_city/7418121.stm| publisher= [[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]]| date=23 May 2008| accessdate=28 February 2009}}</ref>

;黑池
On 21 May 2009 it was reported that Holloway, after 363 days out of football, was set to be announced as the new manager of Blackpool following the departure of their [[caretaker_manager|caretaker manager]] [[Tony_Parkes|Tony Parkes]]. The appointment was confirmed later the same day with Holloway signing a one-year contract with the club.<ref name="Blackpool unveil Holloway">{{Cite news| title=Blackpool unveil Holloway| url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/b/blackpool/8061441.stm | publisher= [[bbc.co.uk|bbc.co.uk]]| date=21 May 2009| accessdate=21 May 2009}}</ref> His first league game in charge of ''the Seasiders'' was a 1–1 draw with his former club Queens Park Rangers at [[Loftus_Road|Loftus Road]] on 8 August 2009, the opening day of the [[Blackpool_F.C._season_2009-10|2009–10]] season.

Nine months later, he guided the club to the [[Premier_League|Premier League]] after winning the [[2010_Football_League_Championship_play-off_Final|play-offs]] following a sixth-placed finish in [[Football_League_Championship|The Championship]],<ref name=DMail1281133>{{Cite news|url=http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-1281133/Blackpools-road-riches-The-futures-er-tangerine-Holloways-Seaside-Barmy-Army-party-pride.html|title=Blackpool's road to riches: The future's, er, tangerine as Olly's Barmy Army party with pride|author=Chris Wheeler|publisher=[[Daily_Mail|Daily Mail]]|date=25 May 2010|accessdate=2010-05-25 | location=London}}</ref><ref name="times7133840">{{Cite news|url=http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/sport/football/football_league/article7133840.ece|title=Blackpool reach promised land|date=23 May 2010|publisher=[[The_Times|The Times]]|accessdate=24 May 2010 | location=London | first=Andrew | last=Longmore}}</ref> becoming only the second Blackpool manager (after [[Les_Shannon|Les Shannon]] in 1970) to win promotion in his first full season. Holloway described the achievement as the best moment of his life, aside from seeing his children born.<ref name="bbc8712024">{{cite news|title=Big time Blackpool  |url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/b/blackpool/8712024.stm|publisher=[[BBC_Sport|BBC Sport]]|accessdate=31 May 2010|date=11 August 2010}}</ref>

Holloway followed this up in late July by leading Blackpool to victory in the [[South_West_Challenge_Cup|South West Challenge Cup]] annual pre-season tournament. It was the first time a Premier League club had taken part.<ref name="bfc2101626">{{Cite web|title=Seasiders Win Cup|url=http://www.blackpoolfc.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0,,10432~2101626,00.html|publisher=[[Blackpool_F.C.|Blackpool F.C.]]|accessdate=25 July 2010|date=11 August 2010|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120614034508/http://www.blackpoolfc.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10432~2101626%2C00.html|archive-date=2012-06-14|dead-url=yes}}</ref>

Before the start of Blackpool's first top flight season in 40 years, media reports suggested that Holloway was set to resign as manager following an alleged dispute with club chairman [[Karl_Oyston|Karl Oyston]]. However, at a [[News_conference|Press Conference]] held at [[Bloomfield_Road|Bloomfield Road]] on 11 August to announce the arrival of four new players, Holloway swiftly denied the rumours, describing his relationship with Oyston as "absolutely fantastic". And adding:
{{cquote|Apparently yesterday [Tuesday] I had resigned. It's just a crazy world that we have moved into. Before anyone asks a question, I just want to make sure you can see me – you can see me here and I'm not a cardboard cut-out, because somehow or other, I'm not supposed to be here. I had to be in London the day before and didn't want to drive back at six o'clock in the morning to get here because I was too tired. I had to be at a Premier League meeting, and [look] what that has caused by not coming back up for training. We only had eight players, some were on international duty and I wasn't going to train them that hard anyway. Look at how things go crazy. But welcome, and by the way, we've just signed some new players as well. I just want to get that straight.<ref name="bbc8904922">{{cite news|title=Blackpool boss Ian Holloway dismisses quit rumours |url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/b/blackpool/8904922.stm|publisher=[[BBC_Sport|BBC Sport]]|accessdate=12 August 2010|date=11 August 2010}}</ref>}}

The following day it was reported that Holloway had signed a new two-year contract.<ref name="express192637">{{Cite news|last=Bretherton|first=Chris|title=Ian Holloway Signs New Two Year Deal With Blackpool|url=http://www.express.co.uk/posts/view/192637/Ian-Holloway-signs-new-two-year-deal-with-Blackpool|accessdate=12 August 2010|newspaper=[[Daily_Express|Daily Express]]|date=12 August 2010}}</ref>

On 27 January 2011, the Premier League fined Blackpool £25,000 for fielding what they believed to be a weakened team against [[Aston_Villa_F.C.|Aston Villa]] on 10 November 2010. Holloway, who initially threatened to resign if punishment was dealt, made ten changes to the team for the fixture. <ref>
[http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/b/blackpool/9378679.stm "Blackpool fined £25,000 by Premier League"] - BBC Sport, 27 January 2011</ref> Holloway was made aware of the fine over the phone while playing [[golf|golf]] with his wife at Shoreditch Golf Club in [[Chorley|Chorley]].<ref>[http://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/news-and-comment/ian-holloway-they-said-charlie-was-on-his-way-to-anfield-but-he-was-sat-next-to-me-in-my-office-2205697.html "Ian Holloway: They said Charlie was on his way to Anfield... but he was sat next to me in my office"] - ''The Independent on Sunday'', 6 February 2011</ref> He offered his resignation to Karl Oyston, but it was rejected.<ref>[http://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league/holloway-offers-resignation-after-premier-league-fines-blackpool-2197682.html "Holloway offers resignation after Premier League fines Blackpool"] - ''The Independent'', 29 January 2011</ref>

On 22 May 2011, Blackpool lost their Premier League status after losing to Manchester United at Old Trafford, coupled with results elsewhere, and returned to The Championship after one season.<ref>[http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/13444164.stm "Manchester United 4–2 Blackpool"] - BBC Sport, 22 May 2011</ref>

Holloway marked his century of games in charge of Blackpool with a victory, the 37th of his reign, over [[Ipswich_Town_F.C.|Ipswich Town]] at Bloomfield Road on 10 September 2011.<ref>[http://www.clicklancashire.com/sport/blackpool-fc/1210458-blackpool-fc-2-ipswich-town-0---match-report.html "Blackpool FC 2 Ipswich Town 0 - Match Report"] {{Wayback|url=http://www.clicklancashire.com/sport/blackpool-fc/1210458-blackpool-fc-2-ipswich-town-0---match-report.html |date=20140912161912 }} - ClickLancashire.com, 10 September 2011</ref>

;水晶宮
-->
;米禾爾
2014年1月6日荷路威接替因戰績低落而被革職的[[史提夫·盧馬斯|史提夫·盧馬斯]]帶領[[英冠|英冠]]球會[[米尔沃尔足球俱乐部|米禾爾]]，簽約兩年半<ref name="Ian Holloway">{{citenews |language=en |url=http://www.bbc.com/sport/0/football/25624951 |title=Ian Holloway: Millwall set to appoint ex-Crystal Palace manager |work=''[[BBC_Sport|BBC Sport]]'' |date=2014-01-06 |accessdate=2014-01-08 |archive-date=2015-09-24 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150924200418/http://www.bbc.com/sport/0/football/25624951 |dead-url=no }}</ref>。2015年3月10日，米禾爾最近6戰5負，聯賽榜位列尾二，去屆雖然成功帶領球隊保級，荷路威同意中止合約，由米禾爾名宿U21青年隊領隊[[尼尔·哈里斯|尼尔·哈里斯]]（Neil Harris）暫代職務直至球季結束<ref name="Ian Holloway2">{{citenews |language =en |url =http://m.bbc.com/sport/football/31814234 |title =Holloway sacked as Millwall manager |work =''[[BBC_Sport|BBC Sport]]'' |date =2015-03-10 |accessdate =2015-03-11 |archive-date =2016-03-04 |archive-url =https://web.archive.org/web/20160304101026/http://m.bbc.com/sport/football/31814234 |dead-url =no }}</ref>。

==歷年金句==
* 「我愛[[黑潭|黑池]]。我們很相似。我們都在黑暗中更好看。」<br />（''I love Blackpool. We're very similar. We both look better in the dark.''）
* 「[[保罗·弗隆|保罗·弗隆]]是我的[[古董|古董]][[勞斯萊斯|勞斯萊斯]]，但卻不費分文。我們擦亮它，照顧它，並由機械師為它進行微調。我們好好照顧它，因為我們需要每天駕駛它，而不是留待大婚時才使用它。」<br />（''Paul Furlong is my vintage Rolls Royce and he cost me nothing. We polish him, look after him, and I have him fine-tuned by my mechanics. We take good care of him because we have to drive him every day, not just save him for weddings.''）
* 「我是一名[[足球|足球]][[領隊_(足球)|領隊]]，不會預知未來。去年我原本預計會到[[康沃爾郡|康和郡]]渡假，最後卻去了[[莱姆里杰斯|莱姆里杰斯]]。」<br />（''I am a football manager. I can't see into the future. Last year I thought I was going to Cornwall on my holidays but I ended up going to Lyme Regis.''）
* 「幸好[[助理裁判员|旁證]]不是站在我的前方，否則我一定會用棍子戳他，以確保他是清醒的。」<br />（''It was lucky that the linesman wasn't stood in front of me as I would have poked him with a stick to make sure he was awake.''）

<small>資料來源：[http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/20191292 Ian Holloway in his own words] {{Wayback|url=http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/20191292 |date=20160119122018 }}</small>

==榮譽==
===球員===
;布里斯托流浪
*[[英格蘭足球聯賽|英格蘭丙組足球聯賽]]冠軍：1989/90年；

===領隊===
;昆士柏流浪
*[[英格蘭足球聯賽|英格蘭乙組足球聯賽]]亞軍：2003/04年（升班[[英冠|英冠]]）；

;黑池
*[[英格蘭足球冠軍聯賽|英格蘭足球冠軍聯賽]]附加賽冠軍：[[2009年至2010年英格蘭足球冠軍聯賽#附加賽|2009/10年]]（升班[[英超|英超]]）；

;水晶宫
*[[英格蘭足球冠軍聯賽|英格蘭足球冠軍聯賽]]附加賽冠軍：[[2012年至2013年英格蘭足球冠軍聯賽#附加賽|2012/13年]]（升班[[英超|英超]]）

==自傳==
*《Little Book of Ollie'isms》（2008年）
*《Ollie: The Autobiography of Ian Holloway》（2009年）

==延伸閱讀==
*{{Cite book |last=Murply |first=Alex |title=《Let's Have Coffee:The Tao of Ian Holloway》 |editor=Jones, Richard; Faragher Steve |publisher=Naked Guides Ltd |location=[[布里斯托尔|布里斯托尔]] |date=1 June 2005 |isbn=0954417798}}

==參考資料==
{{Reflist}}

==外部連結==
{{Commons category|Ian Holloway}}
{{Wikiquote|Ian Holloway|伊恩·荷路威}}
* {{soccerbase|3573|伊恩·荷路威}}
* {{soccerbase (manager)|628|伊恩·荷路威}}

{{甘士比領隊}}
{{普利茅夫領隊}}
{{黑池領隊}}
{{米禾爾領隊}}
{{水晶宮領隊}}

{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Holloway, Ian}}
[[Category:英格蘭足球運動員|Category:英格蘭足球運動員]]
[[Category:足球中場|Category:足球中場]]
[[Category:賓福特球員|Category:賓福特球員]]
[[Category:布里斯托流浪球員|Category:布里斯托流浪球員]]
[[Category:昆士柏流浪球員|Category:昆士柏流浪球員]]
[[Category:托基聯球員|Category:托基聯球員]]
[[Category:溫布頓球員|Category:溫布頓球員]]
[[Category:英格蘭足球聯賽球員|Category:英格蘭足球聯賽球員]]
[[Category:英超球員|Category:英超球員]]
[[Category:英格兰足球领队|Category:英格兰足球领队]]
[[Category:布里斯托流浪領隊|Category:布里斯托流浪領隊]]
[[Category:昆士柏流浪領隊|Category:昆士柏流浪領隊]]
[[Category:普利茅夫領隊|Category:普利茅夫領隊]]
[[Category:李斯特城領隊|Category:李斯特城領隊]]
[[Category:黑池領隊|Category:黑池領隊]]
[[Category:水晶宫領隊|Category:水晶宫領隊]]
[[Category:米禾爾領隊|Category:米禾爾領隊]]
[[Category:英格蘭足球聯賽領隊|Category:英格蘭足球聯賽領隊]]
[[Category:英超領隊|Category:英超領隊]]