{{Infobox academic
| honorific_prefix   = <!-- see [[Wikipedia:格式手册/传记|MOS:CREDENTIAL]] and [[Wikipedia:格式手册/传记|MOS:HONORIFIC]] -->
| name               = 莫里斯·斯瓦迪士<br/>{{lang|en|Morris Swadesh}}
| honorific_suffix   = 
| image              = 
| image_size         = 
| alt                = 
| caption            = 
| native_name        = 
| native_name_lang   = 
| birth_name         = <!-- use only if different from full/othernames -->
| birth_date         = {{birth date|1909|1|22}}
| birth_place        = {{USA}}[[马萨诸塞州|马萨诸塞州]][[霍利奥克_(马萨诸塞州)|霍利奥克]]
| death_date         = {{death date and age|1967|7|20|1909|1|22}}
| death_place        = {{MEX}}[[墨西哥城|墨西哥城]]
| death_cause        = 
| other_names        = 
| occupation         = 
| period             = 
| known_for          = [[斯瓦迪士核心詞列表|斯瓦迪士核心詞列表]]
| title              = 
| boards             = <!--board or similar positions extraneous to main occupation-->
| spouse             = 
| partner            = 
| children           = 
| parents            = 
| relatives          = 
| awards             = <!--notable national-level awards only-->
| website            = 
| education          = {{ubl|[[芝加哥大学|芝加哥大学]] ({{small|B.A., M.A.}})|[[耶鲁大学|耶鲁大学]] ({{small|Ph.D.}})}}
| thesis_title       = The Internal Economy of the Nootka Word
| thesis_url         = 
| thesis_year        = 1933
| school_tradition   = 
| doctoral_advisor   = [[愛德華·薩丕爾|愛德華·薩丕爾]]
| academic_advisors  = 
| influences         = <!--must be referenced from a third-party source-->
| era                = 
| discipline         = [[语言学|语言学]]
| sub_discipline     = <!--academic discipline specialist area – e.g. Sub-atomic research, 20th-century Danish specialist, Pauline research, Arcadian and Ugaritic specialist-->
| workplaces         = {{ubl|[[威斯康星大学麦迪逊分校|威斯康星大学麦迪逊分校]]|[[纽约市立学院|纽约市立学院]]|[[墨西哥国立自治大学|墨西哥国立自治大学]]|[[阿爾伯塔大學|阿爾伯塔大學]]}}
| doctoral_students  = <!--only those with WP articles-->
| notable_students   = 
| main_interests     = {{ubl|[[歷史語言學|歷史語言學]]|[[语言年代学|语言年代学]]|{{le|词汇统计学|Lexicostatistics}}|[[美洲原住民語言|美洲原住民語言]]}}
| notable_works      = 
| notable_ideas      = 
| influenced         = <!--must be referenced from a third-party source-->
| signature          = 
| signature_alt      = 
| signature_size     = 
| footnotes          = 
}}
'''莫里斯·斯瓦迪士'''（{{lang-en|Morris Swadesh}}，{{bd|1909年|1月22日|1967年|7月20日}}）是一位有影响却充满争议的[[美国|美国]][[语言学|语言学家]]。他曾把[[历史语言学|历史语言学]]的基本概念应用于[[美洲土著语言|美洲土著语言]]之中。他认为存在一种可以适用于所有语言的规则。他将其一生主要用于对比[[美洲|美洲]]语言以发现其中的相关性。他曾对[[语言年代学|语言年代学]]做出很大贡献，发明了[[斯瓦迪士核心词列表|斯瓦迪士核心词列表]]。

== 參考文獻 ==
{{refbegin|2}}
* Esterhill, Frank. 2000. ''Interlingua Institute: A History.'' New York: Interlingua Institute.
* Newman, Stanley. 1967. "Morris Swadesh (1909-1967)." ''Language'' 43.
* Price, David H. 1997. "[http://homepages.stmartin.edu/fac_staff/dprice/AAA97.htm Anthropologists on trial"], Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Anthropological Association, Washington, D.C., November 1997
* Price, David H. 2004. ''Threatening Anthropology: McCarthyism and the FBI's Surveillance of Activist Anthropologists.'' Durham, North Carolina: Duke University Press. ISBN 0-8223-3326-0
* Ruhlen, Merritt. 1994. ''On the Origin of Languages: Studies in Linguistic Taxonomy'', Stanford, California: Stanford University Press.
{{refend}}

== 延伸閱讀 ==
{{refbegin|2}}
*Anttila, Raimo, An Introduction to Historical and Comparative Linguistics, New York: Macmillan, 1972; 2nd edition, as Historical and Comparative Linguistics, Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins, 1989
*Harris, Zellig, Methods in Structural Linguistics, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1951; as Structural Linguistics, 1960
*Lounsbury, Floyd G. "Recollections of the Works Progress Administration's Oneida Language and Folklore Project, 1938-41." in The Oneida Indian Experience, Two Perspectives. Jack Campisi and Laurence M. Hauptman, eds. 1988.
*Hymes, Dell H., editor, Language in Culture and Society, New York: Harper and Row, 1964
*Hymes, Dell H., "Morris Swadesh: From the First Yale School to World Prehistory", in ''The Origin and Diversification of Language'', by Morris Swadesh, Chicago: Aldine Atherton, 1971
*Lamb, Sidney M., and E. Douglas Mitchell, editors, ''Sprung from Some Common Source: Investigations into the Prehistory of Languages'', Stanford, California: Stanford University Press, 1991
*Newman, Stanley, "Morris Swadesh (1909-1967)", ''Language'' 43 (1967)
{{refend}}

== 外部連結 ==
{{Wiktionary|Swadesh list}}
{{refbegin}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20051113082220/http://www.mnsu.edu/emuseum/information/biography/pqrst/swadesh_morris.html Morris Swadesh], Minnesota State University, Mankato
{{refend}}

{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT: Swadesh, Morris}}
[[Category:美国语言学家|Category:美国语言学家]]
[[Category:语言学家|Category:语言学家]]
[[Category:芝加哥大学校友|Category:芝加哥大学校友]]
[[Category:耶鲁大学校友|Category:耶鲁大学校友]]
[[Category:美國猶太人|Category:美國猶太人]]
[[Category:战略情报局人物|Category:战略情报局人物]]