{{Automatic taxobox
 | image = Portunus pelagicus male.jpg
 | image_width = 250px
 | image_caption = [[遠海梭子蟹|遠海梭子蟹]] ''Portunus pelagicus'' ♂
 | taxon = Portunoidea
 | authority = [[康斯坦丁·萨米埃尔·拉菲内克-施马尔茨|Rafinesque]], 1815
 | subdivision_ranks = [[科_(生物)|科]]<ref name="Grave">{{cite journal |journal=''{{tsl|en|Raffles Bulletin of Zoology}}'' |year=2009 |volume=Suppl. 21 |pages=1–109 |title=A classification of living and fossil genera of decapod crustaceans |author1=Sammy De Grave |author2=N. Dean Pentcheff |author3=Shane T. Ahyong |url=http://rmbr.nus.edu.sg/rbz/biblio/s21/s21rbz1-109.pdf |display-authors=etal |language=en |access-date=2012-12-18 |archive-date=2011-06-06 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110606064728/http://rmbr.nus.edu.sg/rbz/biblio/s21/s21rbz1-109.pdf |dead-url=no }}</ref>
 | subdivision = 七個有現生種的科及四個只有化石種的科：[[#分類|詳見內文]]
}}

'''梭子蟹總科'''（学名{{lang|la|Portunoidea}}），是[[短尾次目|短尾次目]]（[[螃蟹|螃蟹]]）的其中一個[[總科|總科]]級的[[分类阶元|分类阶元]]，其下包括[[梭子蟹科|梭子蟹科]]及其他科<ref name="Grave" /><ref name="Martin & Davis">{{cite book |url=http://www.nhm.org/research/publications/CrustaceaClassification.pdf |title=An Updated Classification of the Recent Crustacea |author=Joel W. Martin & George E. Davis |year=2001 |pages=132 pp |publisher=Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County |format=PDF |language=en |access-date=2007-09-29 |archive-date=2006-05-25 |archive-url=http://web.archive.bibalex.org/web/20060525172232/http://www.nhm.org/research/publications/CrustaceaClassification.pdf |dead-url=no }}</ref>，皆為海洋生物{{r|WoRMS_106702}}。其他文獻尚有其他科保留在本總科，但在[[分子系统发生学|分子系统发生学]]分析之後，有可能對現時這些在分類上的爭議有變更<ref name="Grave"/>。

==描述==
本總科的成員具有扁平及光滑的{{tsl|en|carapace|頭胸甲}}，而且殼的橫向比縱向寬，呈[[六边形|六边形]]、近似 六边形、[[矩形|矩形]]，又或鵝卵形。
It is usually widest between the hindmost spines of the forward rim; there may be up to 9 pairs of these spines, with a few smaller ones right above the head, but they are missing altogether in some <!-- [[species|species]] -->[[物种|物种]].<ref name = ks2006 />

In some, the first <!-- [[maxilliped|maxilliped]] -->[[附肢|附肢]]'s <!-- [[endopod|endopod]] -->[[腿_(节肢动物)|腿 (节肢动物)]] is lobed, forming the characteristic '''portunid lobe'''. The {{tsl|en|cheliped||cheliped}}s are usually robust, and in some the last {{tsl|en|pereiopod||pereiopod}} pair has ovate {{tsl|en|Dactylus||dactyls}}. The {{tsl|en|Suture (anatomy)||sutures}} of the {{tsl|en|sternum (arthropod)||sternum}} between segments 4 to 8 are usually incomplete, and in the <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Portunidae|Portunidae]], the eighth <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[sternite|sternite]] is usually visible if seen from below and has a <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[penial|penial]] groove.<ref name = ks2006 />

雄蟹的[[腹#無脊椎動物|腹]][[體節#節肢動物|體節]]若不是全自由活動的話，就是其第三節到第五節已融合在一起，但often retaining the sutures though. The first {{tsl|en|gonopod||gonopod}} is strongly curved, with a swollen and strongly hooked base.<ref name = ks2006 />

==分類==
梭子蟹總科與[[扇蟹總科|扇蟹總科]]<ref name = ks2006>{{cite journal |author1=Hiroaki Karasawa |author2=Carrie E. Schweitzer |lastauthoramp=yes |year=2006 |title=A new classification of the Xanthoidea ''sensu lato'' (Crustacea: Decapoda: Brachyura) based on phylogenetic analysis and traditional systematics and evaluation of all fossil Xanthoidea ''sensu lato'' |journal=''{{tsl|en|Contributions to Zoology}}'' |volume=75 |issue=1/2 |pages=23–73 |url=http://dpc.uba.uva.nl/cgi/t/text/get-pdf?c=ctz;idno=7501a02 |access-date=2012-12-28 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160303170004/http://dpc.uba.uva.nl/cgi/t/text/get-pdf?c=ctz;idno=7501a02 |archive-date=2016-03-03 |dead-url=yes }}</ref>，過往被劃歸扇蟹總科的[[六足蟹科|六足蟹科]]及{{tsl|en|Mathildellidae}}，在某些分類會劃歸梭子蟹總科；而在深海生活的[[怪蟹科|怪蟹科]]一般都會劃歸梭子蟹總科，但亦有分類把它放在扇蟹總科之下。所有梭子蟹總科的物種均在海洋生活，除了現時已獨立成單獨總科的[[毛子蟹科|毛子蟹科]]（Trichodactylidae）有部份是在淡水生活。

===現時分類===
According to the latest synopsis, there are eleven families in the superfamily Portunoidea, four of which are extinct:<ref name="Grave"/>
*<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Carcinidae|Carcinidae]]
*{{tsl|en|Carcineretidae||Carcineretidae}} (extinct)
*<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Catoptridae|Catoptridae]]
* [[怪蟹科|怪蟹科]] [[Geryonidae|Geryonidae]]
*<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Lithophylacidae|Lithophylacidae]] (extinct)
*<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Longusorbiidae|Longusorbiidae]] (extinct)
* [[Macropipidae|Macropipidae]]
*<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Pirimelidae|Pirimelidae]]
* [[梭子蟹科|梭子蟹科]] [[Portunidae|Portunidae]]
*<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Psammocarcinidae|Psammocarcinidae]] (extinct)
* [[指甲蟹科|指甲蟹科]] [[Thiidae|Thiidae]] {{small| Dana, 1852}}：原屬[[黃道蟹總科|黃道蟹總科]]<ref name="Martin & Davis" />

==參考文獻==
{{Reflist|refs=
<ref name="WoRMS_106702">{{WoRMS |id=106702
 |title=Portunoidea Rafinesque, 1815
 |date=2005-05-02 |access-date=2019-08-22 }}</ref>
}}

==外部連結==
{{commons category|Portunoidea}}
*{{wikispecies-inline|Portunoidea}}

{{Brachyura}}
{{Taxonbar|from=Q1337809}}

[[Category:梭子蟹總科|]]