{{noteTA
|T=zh-hant:時體氣; zh-hans:时体气
|G1=Tense–aspect–mood
}}

'''時體氣'''（時態-體-語氣/{{lang|en|tense–aspect–mood}}/'''{{Smallcaps|TAM}}'''、{{lang|en|tense–modality–aspect}}/'''{{Smallcaps|TMA}}'''、時體氣系統/時式動貌系(時貌態)統—）表示在語言之[[语法|语法]]體系中，所涵蓋之[[时态|时态]]表示(在時間位置上)、[[体_(语法)|體]](時間結構-單一時間塊，時間連續流，或重複發生)，及[[语气|语气]]或[[情态|情态]](必要性程度、義務、概率、能力度)。<ref>Bybee, Joan L., Revere Perkins, and William Pagliuca (1994) ''The Evolution of Grammar: Tense, Aspect, and Modality in the Languages of the World''. University of Chicago Press.</ref> 在某些情況下，[[言據性|言據性]](evidentiality、證據是否存在的語句，或表"如果是什麼樣的"之語式)也可被包括在內。

該術語的使用是簡便性的，也因此它往往難以解開語言深層結構的一些特性。時常出現的"時態-體-語氣"中的任意兩項(或全部三項)可以由單一的語法結構來表達。但是這種系統可能是不完整的，然而並非所有可能的組合或可能含有可行性的架構。在其他情況下，有可能無法清晰的界定"時態及語氣"，或者"體及語氣"等之分類。

例如，許多印歐語言不會很明確的區分"時態"及"體"。<ref name=Dahl>Östen Dahl, ''Tense and Aspect Systems'', Blackwell, 1985.</ref><ref>Hopper, Paul J., ed. (1982) ''Tense–Aspect: Between Semantics and Pragmatics'', Benjamins.</ref><ref>Tedeschi, Philip, and Anne Zaenen, eds. (1981) ''Tense and Aspect (Syntax and Semantics 14)'', Academic Press.</ref><ref name="Comrie tense">Comrie, Bernard, ''Tense'', Cambridge Univ. Press, 1985.</ref><ref name="Comrie aspect">Comrie, Bernard, ''Aspect'', Cambridge Univ. Press, 1976.</ref><ref name=Palmer>Palmer, F. R., ''Mood and Modality'', 1986.</ref><ref>de Saussure, Louis (Editor), Jacques Moeschler (Editor), Genoveva Puskas (Editor), ''Tense, Mood and Aspect: Theoretical and Descriptive Issues'', Rodopi, 2007.</ref><ref>Bhat, D. N. S., ''The Prominence of Tense, Aspect and Mood (Studies in Language Companion Series)'', John Benjamins Publishing Co., 1999.</ref><ref>Wiklund, Anna-Lena, ''The Syntax of Tenselessness: Tense/Mood/Aspect-agreeing Infinitivals (Studies in Generative Grammar 92)'', Mouton de Gruyter, 2007.</ref> 在有些語言裡，比如[[西班牙語|西班牙語]]和[[現代希臘語|現代希臘語]]中，傳統上"未完成體"(imperfective aspect)是和"過去式"結合在一起被稱為"未完成式"(imperfect)。而在其它語言中則另用"過去未完成式"(past imperfective)來表示、比如[[拉丁語|拉丁語]]及[[波斯語|波斯語]]。

並非所有語言會將"時態、體，及語氣"混為一談。不過，在理論上"時態、體，及語氣"能以獨立的語法標記更接近地表現出理想上三者的區別性。在一些[[分析語言|分析語言]](analytic language)裡、比如[[克里奧爾語|克里奧爾語]]上會出現這種[[語言生物程序理論|語言生物程序理論]](Language bioprogram theory)的現象。

==克里奧爾語==
[[克里奧爾語|克里奧爾語]]，使用在大西洋和非大西洋地區，其語言往往涵蓋有著大量的[[语法学|句法]]功能，包括避免[[規範詞素|規範詞素]](附著詞素)的特性。<!--Tense, aspect, and mood are usually indicated with separate invariant pre-verbal [[Auxiliary_verb|auxiliaries]].  Typically the unmarked verb is used for either the timeless habitual or the [[stative_verb|stative]] aspect or the past [[perfective_aspect|perfective]] tense–aspect combination. In general creoles tend to put less emphasis on marking tense than on marking aspect.  Typically aspectually unmarked stative verbs can be marked with the anterior tense, and non-statives, with or without the anterior marker, can optionally be marked for the [[Continuous_and_progressive_aspects|progressive]], [[Habitual_aspect|habitual]], or completive aspect or for the [[irrealis_mood|irrealis mood]].  In some creoles the anterior can be used to mark the counterfactual.  When any of tense, aspect, and modality are specified, they are typically indicated separately with the invariant pre-verbal [[Marker_(linguistics)|markers]] in the sequence anterior [[Relative_and_absolute_tense|relative tense]] (prior to the time focused on), irrealis mode (conditional or future), non-punctual aspect.<ref name=Holm>Holm, John (2000) ''An Introduction to Pidgins and Creoles'', Cambridge Univ. Press.</ref>{{rp|pp. 176–9, p. 191;}}<ref>Velupillai, Viveka, ''Hawai'i Creole English: A Typological Analysis of the Tense–Mood–Aspect System'', Palgrave Macmillan, 2003.</ref><ref>Singler, John Victor, ''Pidgin and Creole Tense–Mood–Aspect Systems (Creole Language Library)'', John Benjamins Publishing Co., 1990.</ref>

===夏威夷克里奧爾英語===
{{Main|Hawaiian Pidgin#Grammatical features}}

Hawaiian Creole English (HCE), or Hawaiian Pidgin, is a creole language with most of its vocabulary drawn from its [[Stratum_(linguistics)#Superstratum|superstrate]] English, but as with all creoles its grammar is very different from that of its superstrate.  HCE verbs<ref>Sakoda, Kent, and Jeff Siegel, ''Pidgin Grammar'', Bess Press, 2003.</ref> have only two morphologically distinct forms: the unmarked form (e.g. ''teik'' "take") and the progressive form with the suffix ''-in'' appended to the unmarked form (''teikin'' "taking").  The past tense is indicated either by the unmarked form or by the preverbal auxiliary ''wen'' (''Ai wen see om'' "I saw him") or ''bin'' (especially among older speakers) or ''haed'' (especially on Kauai).  However, for "to say" the marked past tense has the obligatory irregular form ''sed'' "said", and there are optional irregular past tense forms ''sin'' or ''saw'' = ''wen si'' "saw", ''keim'' = ''wen kam'' "came", and ''tol'' = ''wen tel'' "told".  The past is indicated only once in a sentence since it is a relative tense.

The future marker is the preverbal auxiliary ''gon'' or ''goin'' "am/is/are going to": ''gon bai'' "is going to buy".  The future of the past tense/aspect uses the future form since the use of the past tense form to mark the time of perspective retains its influence throughout the rest of the sentence: ''Da gai sed hi gon fiks mi ap'' "the guy said he [was] gonna fix me up".

There are various preverbal modal auxiliaries: ''kaen'' "can", ''laik'' "want to", ''gata'' "have got to", ''haeftu'' "have to", ''baeta'' "had better", ''sapostu'' "am/is/are supposed to".  Tense markers are used infrequently before modals: ''gon kaen kam'' "is going to be able to come".  ''Waz'' "was" can indicate past tense before the future marker ''gon'' and the modal ''sapostu'': ''Ai waz gon lift weits'' "I was gonna lift weights"; ''Ai waz sapostu go'' "I was supposed to go".

There is a preverbal auxiliary ''yustu'' for past tense habitual aspect: ''yustu tink so'' "used to think so".  The progressive aspect can be marked with the auxiliary ''ste'' in place of or in addition to the verbal suffix ''-in'':  ''Wat yu ste it?'' = ''Wat yu itin?'' "What are you eating?"; ''Wi ste mekin da plaen'' "We're making the plan".  The latter, double-marked, form tends to imply a transitory nature of the action.  Without the suffix, ''ste'' can alternatively indicate perfective aspect:  ''Ai ste kuk da stu awredi'' "I cooked the stew already"; this is true, for instance, after a modal: ''yu sapostu ste mek da rais awredi'' "You're supposed to have made the rice already".  ''Stat'' is an auxiliary for [[inchoative_aspect|inchoative aspect]] when combined with the verbal suffix ''-in'': ''gon stat plein'' "gonna start playing".  The auxiliary ''pau'' without the verbal suffix indicates completion: ''pau tich'' "finish(ed) teaching".  Aspect auxiliaries can co-occur with tense markers: ''gon ste plei'' "gonna be playing"; ''wen ste it'' "was eating".

==現代希臘語==
{{Main|Modern Greek grammar#Verb}}

Modern Greek<ref>Adams, Douglas Q., ''Essential Modern Greek Grammar'', Dover Publ., 1987.</ref>{{rp|pp. 50–76}} distinguishes the perfective and imperfective aspects by the use of two different verb stems.  For the imperfective aspect, suffixes are used to indicate the past tense indicative mood, the non-past tense indicative mood, and the subjunctive and imperative moods.  For the perfective aspect, suffixes are used to indicate the past tense indicative mood, the subjunctive mood, and the imperative mood.  The perfective subjunctive is twice as common as the imperfective subjunctive.  The subjunctive mood form is used in dependent clauses and in situations where English would use an infinitive (which is absent in Greek).

There is a perfect form in both tenses, which is expressed by an inflected form of the imperfective auxiliary verb έχω "have" and an invariant verb form derived from the perfective stem of the main verb. The perfect form is much rarer than in English. The non-past perfect form is not a true perfect aspect in that it does not imply present relevance but rather simply past action, as in French or Italian.

In addition, all the basic forms (past and non-past, imperfective and perfective) can be combined with a particle indicating future tense/conditional mood. Combined with the non-past forms, this expresses an imperfective future and a perfective future. Combined with the imperfective past it is used to indicate the conditional, and with the perfective past to indicate the inferential.  If the future particle precedes the present perfect form, a future perfect form results.

==斯拉夫語言==

In all Slavic languages, most verbs come in pairs with one member indicating an imperfective aspect and the other indicating a perfective one.

===俄語===
{{Main|Russian grammar#verbs}}

Most Russian verbs<ref>Kemple, Brian, ''Essential Russian Grammar'', Dover Publ., 1993.</ref>{{rp|pp. 53–85}} come in pairs, one with imperfective aspect and the other with perfective aspect, the latter usually formed from the former with a prefix but occasionally with a stem change or using a different root. Perfective verbs, whether derived or basic, can be made imperfective with a suffix.<ref name=Dahl/>{{rp|p84}}  Each aspect has a past form and a non-past form.  The non-past verb forms are conjugated by person/number, while the past verb forms are conjugated by gender/number. The present tense is indicated with the non-past imperfective form. The future in the perfective aspect is expressed by applying the conjugation of the present form to the perfective version of the verb.  There is also a compound future imperfective form consisting of the future of "to be" plus the infinitive of the imperfective verb.

The conditional mood is expressed by a particle (=English "would") after the past tense form.  There are conjugated modal verbs, followed by the infinitive, for obligation, necessity, and possibility/permission.

==羅曼斯語言==
{{Main|Romance verbs}}

Romance languages have from five to eight simple inflected forms capturing tense–aspect–mood, as well as corresponding compound structures combining the simple forms of "to have" or "to be" with a past participle. There is a [[perfective_aspect|perfective]]/[[imperfective_aspect|imperfective aspect]] distinction.

===法語===
{{Main|French verbs}}

French has inflectionally distinct imperative, subjunctive, indicative and conditional mood forms.  As in English, the conditional mood form can also be used to indicate a future-as-viewed-from-the-past tense–aspect combination in the indicative mood.  The subjunctive mood form is used frequently to express doubt, desire, request, etc. in dependent clauses.  There are indicative mood forms for, in addition to the future-as-viewed-from-the-past usage of the conditional mood form, the following combinations: future; an imperfective past tense–aspect combination whose form can also be used in contrary-to-fact "if"-clauses with present reference; a perfective past tense–aspect combination whose form is only used for literary purposes; and a catch-all formulation known as the "present" form which can be used to express the present, past historical events, or the near-future.  All synthetic forms are also marked for person and number.

Additionally, the indicative mood has five compound (two-word) verb forms, each of which results from using one of the above simple forms of "to have" (or to "to be" for intransitive verbs of motion) plus a past participle. These forms are used to shift back the time of an event relative to the time from which the event is viewed.  This perfect form as applied to the present tense does not represent the perfect tense/aspect (past event with continuation to or relevance for the present), but rather represents a perfective past tense–aspect combination (a past action viewed in its entirety).<ref name=Dahl/>{{rp|pp. 144, 171}}

Unlike Italian or Spanish, French does not mark for a continuous aspect. Thus, "I am doing it" and "I do it" both translate to the same sentence in French: ''Je le fais''. However, this information is often clear from context; and when not, it can be conveyed using periphrasis: for example, the expression ''être en train de [faire quelque chose]'' ("to be in the middle of [doing something]") is often used to convey the sense of a continuous aspect.

===意大利語===
{{Main|Italian verbs}}

Italian has synthetic forms for the indicative, imperative, conditional, and subjunctive moods. The conditional mood form can also be used for hearsay: ''Secondo lui, sarebbe tempo di andare'' "According to him, it would be [is] time to go".<ref name=Ragusa/>{{rp|p.76}} The indicative mood has simple forms (one word, but conjugated by person and number) for the present tense, the imperfective aspect in the past tense, the perfective aspect in the past, and the future (and the future form can also be used to express present probability, as in the English "It will be raining now").<ref name=Ragusa/>{{rp|p.75}}  As with other Romance languages, compound verbs shifting the action to the past from the point in time from which it is perceived can be formed by preceding a past participle by a conjugated simple form of "to have", or "to be" in the case of intransitive verbs of motion.  As with French, this form when applied to the present tense of "to have" or "to be" does not convey [[perfect_aspect|perfect aspect]] but rather the perfective aspect in the past.<ref name=Ragusa>Ragusa, Olga, ''Essential Italian Grammar'', Dover Publ., 1963.</ref>{{rp|p.62}}  In the compound pluperfect, the helping verb is in the past imperfective form in a main clause but in the past perfective form in a dependent clause.<ref name=Ragusa/>{{rp|p.71}}

Unlike French, Italian has a form to express progressive aspect: in either the present or the past imperfective, the verb ''stare'' "to stand", "to be temporarily" conjugated for person and number is followed by a present gerund (indicated by the suffix ''-ando'' or ''-endo'' "-ing").<ref name=Ragusa/>{{rp|p.59}}

===葡萄牙語===
{{Main|Portuguese verb conjugation}}

Portuguese has synthetic forms for the indicative, imperative, conditional, and subjunctive moods.  The conditional mood form can also express past probability: ''Seria ele que falava'' "It_would_be he that was_speaking".<ref name=Prista>Prista, Alexander da R., ''Essential Portuguese Grammar'', Dover Publ., 1966.</ref>{{rp|p.62}}  The subjunctive form seldom appears outside dependent clauses.  In the indicative, there are five one-word forms conjugated for person and number: one for the present tense (which can indicate progressive or non-progressive aspect); one for the perfective aspect of the past; one for the imperfective aspect of the past; a form for the pluperfect aspect that is only used in formal writing;<ref name=Prista/>{{rp|pp. 57–58, 85}} and a future tense form which, as in Italian, can also indicate present tense combined with probabilistic modality.

As with other Romance languages, compound verbs shifting the time of action to the past relative to the time from which it is perceived can be formed by preceding a past participle by a conjugated simple form of "to have". Using the past tense of the helping verb gives the pluperfect form that is used in conversation.  Using the present tense form of the helping verb gives a true perfect aspect, though one whose scope is narrower than that in English: it refers to events occurring in the past and extending to the present, as in ''Tem feito muito frio este inverno'' "It_has made very cold this winter" "It has been very cold this winter (and still is)".<ref name=Prista/>{{rp|p.84}}

Portuguese expresses progressive aspect in any tense by using conjugated ''estar'' "to stand", "to be temporarily" plus the present participle ending in ''-ando'', ''-endo'', or ''indo'':  ''Estou escrevendo uma carta'' "I_am writing a letter".<ref name=Prista/>{{rp|p.52}}

Futurity can be expressed in three ways other than the simple future form:<ref name=Prista/>{{rp|pp. 61–62}} using the present tense form of "to go" as in ''Vou ver João esta tarde'' "I_go to_see John this afternoon"; using the present tense form of one verb meaning "to have" as in ''Temos que ver João hoje'' "We_have that to_see John today"; and using the present tense form of another verb also meaning "to have" as in ''Hei-de ver João amanhã'' "I_have-of to_see John tomorrow".

===西班牙語===
{{Main|Spanish verbs}}

Spanish morphologically distinguishes the indicative, imperative, subjunctive, and conditional moods.  In the indicative mood, there are synthetic (one-word, conjugated for person/number) forms for the present tense, the past tense in the imperfective aspect, the past tense in the perfective aspect, and the future tense.  The past can be viewed from any given time perspective by using conjugated "to have" in any of its synthetic forms plus the past participle.  When this compound form is used with the present tense form of "to have", perfect tense/aspect (past action with present continuation or relevance) is conveyed (as in Portuguese but unlike in Italian or French).

Spanish expresses the progressive similarly to English, Italian, and Portuguese, using the verb "to be" plus the present participle: ''estoy leyendo'' "I_am reading".

==日耳曼語言==
{{Main|Germanic languages}}

Germanic languages tend to have two morphologically distinct simple forms, for past and non-past, as well as a compound construction for the past or for the perfect, and they use modal auxiliary verbs.  The simple forms, the first part of the non-modal compound form, and possibly the modal auxiliaries, are usually conjugated for person and/or number.  A subjunctive mood form is sometimes present.  English also has a compound construction for continuous aspect.  Unlike some Indo-European languages such as the Romance and Slavic languages, Germanic languages have no perfective/imperfective dichotomy.<ref name=Dahl/>{{rp|p. 167}}

===德語===
{{Main|German verbs}}

The most common past tense construction in [[German_language|German]] is the ''haben'' (Eng. "to have") plus past participle (or for intransitive verbs of motion, the ''sein'' (Eng. "to be") plus past participle) form, which is a pure past construction rather than conveying [[perfect_aspect|perfect aspect]].  The past [[progressive_aspect|progressive]] is conveyed by the simple past form.  The [[future_tense|future]] can conveyed by the auxiliary ''werden'', which is conjugated for person and number; but often the simple non-past form is used to convey the future.  Modality is conveyed via conjugated pre-verbal modals: ''müssen'' "to have to", ''wollen'' "to want to", ''können'' "to be able to"; ''würden'' "would" (conditional), ''sollten'' "should" (the subjunctive form of ''sollen''), ''sollen'' "to be supposed to", ''mögen'' "to like", ''dürfen'' "to be allowed to".<ref>Stern, Guy, and Everett F. Bleiler, ''Essential German Grammar'', Dover Publ., 1961.</ref>

===丹麥語===
{{Main|Danish grammar#Verbs}}

[[Danish_language|Danish]] has the usual Germanic simple past and non-past tense forms and the compound construction using "to have" (or for intransitive verbs of motion, "to be"), the compound construction indicating past tense rather than perfect aspect.  Futurity is usually expressed with the simple non-past form, but the auxiliary modals ''vil'' ("want") and ''skal'' ("must"—obligation) are sometimes used (see [[Future_tense#Danish|Future tense#Danish]]).  Other modals include ''kan'' ("can"), ''kan gerne'' ("may"—permission), ''må'' ("must"), and ''må gerne'' ("may—permission). Progressivity can be expressed periphrastically as in ''er ved at læse'' ("is in_process to read"), ''er i færd med at vaske'' ("is in process with to wash"), ''sidder og læser'' ("sits and reads"), and ''står og taler'' ("stands and talks").  The subjunctive mood form has disappeared except for a few stock phrases.<ref>Bredsdorff, Elias, ''Danish: An Elementary Grammar and Reader'', Cambridge Univ. Press, 1984.</ref>

===荷蘭語===
{{Main|Dutch verbs}}

The simple non-past form can convey the progressive, which can also be expressed by the infinitive preceded by ''liggen'' "lie", ''lopen'' "walk, run", ''staan'' "stand", or ''zitten'' "sit" plus ''te''.  The compound "have" (or "be" before intransitive verbs of motion toward a specific destination) plus past participle is synonymous with, and more frequently used than, the simple past form, which is used especially for narrating a past sequence of events.  The past perfect construction is analogous to that in English.

Futurity is often expressed with the simple non-past form, but can also be expressed using the infinitive preceded by the conjugated present tense of ''zullen'';  the latter form can also be used for probabilistic modality in the present.  Futurity can also be expressed with "go" plus the infinitive:  ''Hij gaat een brief schrijven'' "He goes a letter to_write", "He is going to write a letter".  The future perfect tense/aspect combination is formed by conjugated ''zullen'' + ''hebben'' "to have" (or ''zijn'' "to be") + past participle:  ''Zij zullen naar Breda gegaan zijn'' "They will to Breda gone to_be", "They will have gone to Breda".

The conditional mood construction uses the conjugated past tense of ''zullen'': ''Hij zou graag thuis blijven'' "He would gladly home to_stay", "He would gladly stay home".  The past tense/conditional mood combination is formed using the auxiliary "to have" or "to be": ''Hij zou graag thuis gebleven zijn'' "He would gladly home stayed to_be", "He would gladly have stayed home".  In contemporary use the [[Subjunctive_in_Dutch|subjunctive]] form is mostly, but not completely, confined to set phrases and semi-fixed expressions, though in older Dutch texts the use of the subjunctive form can be encountered frequently.

There are various conjugated modal auxiliaries: ''kunnen'' "to be able", ''moeten'' "to have to", ''mogen'' "to be possible" or "to have permission", ''willen'' "to want to", ''laten'' "to allow" or "to cause".  Unlike in English, these modals can be combined with the future tense form: ''Hij zal ons niet kunnen helpen'' "He will us not to_be_able to_help", "He will not be able to help us".<ref>Stern, Henry R., ''Essential Dutch Grammar'', Dover Publ. co., 1984.</ref>{{rp|pp. 45–65}}

===冰島語===
{{Main|Icelandic grammar#Verbs}}

As with other Germanic languages, Icelandic<ref>Einarsson, Stefán, ''Icelandic'', Johns Hopkins Univ. Press, 2000.</ref>{{rp|pp. 135–164}} has two simple verb forms: past and non-past. Compound constructions that look to the past from a given time perspective use conjugated "to have" (or "to be" for intransitive verbs of motion) plus past participle.  In each voice there are forms for the indicative mood and the subjunctive mood for each of the simple past, the simple non-past, the perfect, the past perfect, the future, and the future perfect, and there are a non-past conditional mood form and a past conditional mood form, as well as an imperative mood.  The perfect form is used for a past event with reference to the present or stretching to the present, or for a past event about which there is doubt, so the perfect form represents aspect or modality and not tense.  The future tense form is seldom used.  The non-past subjunctive form expresses a wish or command; the past subjunctive form expresses possibility.  The indicative mood form is used in both clauses of "if [possible situation]...then..." sentences, although "if" can be replaced by the use of the subjunctive mood form.  The subjunctive form is used in both clauses of "if [imaginary situation]...then..." sentences, and is often used in subordinate clauses.  There are various modal auxiliary verbs.  There is a progressive construction using "to be" which is used only for abstract concepts like "learn" and not for activities like "sit": ''ég er að læra'' "I am [at] learning".

===英語===
{{Main|English verbs}}

The English language allows a wide variety of expressions of combinations of tense, aspect, and mood, with a variety of grammatical constructions.  These constructions involve pure [[Morphology_(linguistics)|morphological]] changes (suffixes and internal sound changes of the verb), conjugated [[compound_verb|compound verb]]s, and invariant auxiliaries.  For English {{smallcaps|tam}} from the perspective of modality, see <ref name=Palmer/> and;<ref>Nielsen, Niels-Davidsen, ''Tense and Mood in English: A Comparison With Danish (Topics in English Linguistics)'', de Gruyter Mouton, 1990.</ref> for English {{smallcaps|tam}} from the perspective of tense, see <ref name="Comrie tense"/> and;<ref name=Fleischman>Fleischman, Suzanne, ''The Future in Thought and Action'', Cambridge Univ. Press, 1982.</ref> for English {{smallcaps|tam}} from the perspective of aspect see.<ref name="Comrie aspect"/>

====未標註動詞====
The [[markedness|unmarked]] verb form (as in ''run'', ''feel'') is the [[infinitive|infinitive]] with the particle ''to'' omitted. It indicates [[nonpast_tense|nonpast tense]] with no modal implication.  In an inherently stative verb such as ''feel'', it can indicate present time (''I feel well'') or future in [[dependent_clause|dependent clause]]s (''I'll come tomorrow if I feel better'').  In an inherently non-stative verb such as ''run'', the unmarked form can indicate [[gnomic_tense|gnomic]] or [[habitual_aspect|habitual]] situations (''birds fly; I run every day'') or scheduled futurity, often with a habitual reading (''tomorrow I run the 100 meter race at 5:00; next month I run the 100 meter race every day''). Non-stative verbs in unmarked form appearing in dependent clauses can indicate even unscheduled futurity (''I'll feel better after I run tomorrow; I'll feel better if I run every day next month'').

The unmarked verb is [[Negation_(linguistics)|negated]] by preceding it with ''do/does not'' (''I do not feel well'', ''He does not run every day'').  Here ''do'' has no implication of emphasis, unlike the affirmative (''I do feel better'', ''I do run every day'').

====形態學變化====

The aspectually and modally unmarked past tense is usually marked for tense by the suffix -''ed'', pronounced as {{IPA|/t/}}, {{IPA|/d/}}, or {{IPA|/əd/}} depending on the [[phonology|phonological]] context. However, over 400 verbs (including over 200 with distinct roots – short verbs for features of everyday life, of Germanic origin) are [[English_irregular_verbs|irregular]] and their morphological changes are internal (as in ''I take, I took''). (See [[List_of_English_irregular_verbs|List of English irregular verbs]].)  This aspectually unmarked past tense form appears in innately stative verbs (''I felt bad'') and in non-stative verbs, in which case the aspect could be habitual (''I took one brownie every day last week'') or perfective (''I took a brownie yesterday''), but not progressive.

This form is negated with an invariant [[Isolating_language#Analytic_languages|analytical]] construction using the morphologically unmarked verb (''I / he did not feel bad'', ''I did not take a brownie'').  As with ''do'' and ''do not'', no emphasis is imparted by the use of ''did'' in combination with the negative ''not'' (compare the affirmative ''I / he did take the brownie'', in which ''did'' conveys emphasis).

For the morphological changes associated with the subjunctive mood, see [[English_subjunctive|English subjunctive]].

====共軛複合動詞====
There are two types of conjugated compound verbs in English, which can be combined.

*The construction ''have/has'' + morphologically altered verb (usually with the suffix -''ed'') indicates a combination of tense and aspect : for example, ''have taken'' indicates a present viewing of a past or past and present event, so the continuing relevance of the event is an aspectual feature of the construction. The event in the past could be either stative, habitual, or perfective aspect, but not progressive.
:Furthermore, the time of viewing itself can be placed in the past, by replacing ''have/has'' with ''had'': ''had taken'' indicates a past viewing of an event prior to the viewing.

:The ''have/has/had'' + verb + -''ed'' construction is negated by inserting ''not'' between the two words of the affirmative (''have/has/had not taken'').

*The construction ''am/is/are'' + verb + ''ing'' indicates present tense combined with progressive aspect if the verb is innately non-stative, as in ''I am taking it'', or combined with innate stative aspect as in ''I am feeling better''.  For some stative verbs such as ''feel'', the innate stative nature can be unmarked, so the simple verb form is used (''I feel better''), or it can be marked (as in ''I am feeling better'') with no difference in meaning.  For some other statives, however, either the unmarked form must be used (''I know French'', but not *''I am knowing French'') or the marked form must be used (''I am experiencing boredom'', ''I am basking in glory'', but not ''I experience boredom'' or ''I bask in glory'', which would imply a non-stative (specifically habitual) use of the verb).<ref>Mufwene, Salikoko S., ''Stativity and the Progressive'', Indiana Univ. Linguistics Club, 1984.</ref>

:The ''am/is/are'' + verb + ''ing'' construction is negated by inserting ''not'' between the two words of the affirmative (''am/is/are not taking'').

* The above two forms can be combined, to indicate a present or past view of a prior (or prior and current) event which occurred with stative or progressive  aspect (''I have/had been feeling well'', ''I have/had been taking classes''); here the construction is ''have/has/had'' + ''been'' + main verb + -''ing''.  There is a subtle difference in usage between the case where the viewpoint is from the present and the case where it is from a point in the past:  ''have been taking classes'' implies that the action is not only of present relevance but is continuing to occur; in contrast, ''had been taking classes'' indicates present relevance, but allows but does not require the action to still be occurring (''I had been taking classes but was not still doing so''; ''I had been taking classes and still was'').

:This combined form is negated by inserting ''not'' after ''have/has/had'' (''I have not been taking classes'').

Both of these morphological changes can be combined with the compound verbal constructions given below involving invariant auxiliaries, to form verb phrases such as ''will have been taking''.

====不變助詞====
Aside from the above-mentioned auxiliary verbs, English has 14 invariant auxiliaries (often called ''[[modal_verb|modal verb]]s''), which are used before the morphologically unmarked verb to indicate mood, aspect, tense, or some combination thereof.<ref name=Palmer/>  Some of these have more than one modal interpretation, the choice between which must be based on context; in these cases, the equivalent past tense construction may apply to one but not the other of the modal interpretations. For more details see [[English_modal_verbs|English modal verbs]].

*''used to'' indicates both past tense and habitual aspect (''I used to run every day'') or occasionally stative aspect (''The sun used to shine more brightly'').  It cannot be used with the very recent past (*''I used to run every day last week'' is not acceptable, but ''I used to run every day last summer'' is acceptable though usually no lexical time marker like ''last summer'' is included).  The form that negates the main verb is ''used not to'' + verb (or ''used to not'' + verb); the form that negates habituality is ''did not use to'' + verb.

*''would'' has three alternative uses<ref name=Fleischman/>{{rp|pp. 27–28, 60–65}}:
:*past tense combined with habitual aspect (''Last summer I would run every day'')
:*conditional mood for a present or future action (''If I could, I would do it now / next week'').  In the first person, intentional modality may also be present.
:*past tense, prospective aspect for an action occurring after the past-tense viewpoint (''After I graduated in 1990, I would work in industry for the next ten years'')
:The negative form ''would not'' + verb negates the main verb, but in the conditional and intentional mood in the first person the intentional modality may also be negated to indicate negative intention.

*''will'' has a number of different uses involving tense, aspect, and modality<ref name="Comrie tense"/>{{rp|pp. 21, 47–48}}<ref name=Fleischman/>{{rp|pp. 86–97;}}:

:*It can express aspect alone, without implying futurity: In "He will make mistakes, won't he?", the reference is to a tendency in the past, present, and future and as such expresses habitual aspect.

:*It can express either of two types of modality alone, again without implying futurity: In "That will be John at the door", there is an implication of present time and probabilistic mode, while "You will do it right now" implies obligatory mode.

:*It can express both intentional modality and futurity, as in "I will do it."

:*It can express futurity without modality: "The sun will die in a few billion years."

:As with ''would'', the negative form ''will not'' negates the main verb but in the intentional mode may also indicate negative intentionality.

:In each case the time of viewpoint can be placed in the past by replacing ''will'' with ''would''.

*''shall'' indicates futurity or intention in the first person (''I shall go''); for the other persons, it indicates obligation, often negative as in ''you shall not lie'', but this usage is old-fashioned.

*''must'' can be used either for near-certainty mode (''He must understand it by now'') or for obligatory mode (''You must do that''). The past tense form ''must have understood'' applies only to the near-certainly mode; expressing obligation in the past requires the lexical construction ''had to'' + verb.

*''had better'' indicates obligatory mode (''He had better do that soon'').  There is no corresponding past tense form.

*''should'' has several uses:
:*present or future tense combined with possibility mode: ''If he should be here already, ...''; ''If he should arrive tomorrow, ...''
:*mild obligatory mode in the present or future tense: ''He should do that now / next week''.  The past tense can be substituted by using the form ''He should have done that'', with a morphological change to the main verb.
:*probabilistic mode in the present or future tense: ''This approach should work''.  The corresponding past tense form ''should have worked'' implies impersonal obligation rather than probability.

*''ought to'' + verb can mean the same thing as either of the last two mentioned uses of ''should'': mild obligatory mode in present or future (''He ought to do that now / next week'') or probabilistic mode in the present or future (''This approach ought to work'').  The past tense form ''ought to have done that'', ''ought to have worked'', with a morphological change to the main verb, conveys the same information as the corresponding ''should have'' form in both cases.

*''may'' can indicate either the mode of possibility or that of permission:
:*possibility in the present or future: ''He may be there already'', ''He may arrive tomorrow''.  The form ''He may have arrived'', with a morphological change to the main verb, indicates not just the mode of possibility but also the aspectual feature of viewing a past event from a present viewpoint.  This form applies only to this possibility usage.

:*permission in the present or future:  ''You may go now / next week''.  There is no corresponding way to indicate the presence of permission in the past.

*''can'' has several uses:
:* present ability: ''I can swim''. The past tense is expressed by ''I could swim''.
:*present permission (in informal speech): ''You can go now''.  In the past tense one can use ''could'' (''When I was a child, according to my parents' rules I could swim once a week'').
:* present moderate probability (seldom used):  ''That can be true''.  There is no past form, since the more common ''that could be true'' conveys the same (present) tense.

*''might'' conveys slight likelihood in the present or future (''He might be there already'', ''he might arrive tomorrow'').  It can also convey slight advisability (''You might try that''). The past can be substituted using the form ''might have'' + morphologically altered main verb.

*''could'' is used in several ways:
:*mild permission or advisability in the present: ''You could do that''.  The equivalent past form is ''could have'' + morphologically altered main verb (''you could have done that'').

:*permission in the past: ''She said I could graduate in one more year''.

:*ability in the past:  ''I could swim when I was five years old''.

:*slight probability in the present: ''That could be Mary at the door''.  The past tense equivalent is ''That could have been Mary at the door yesterday'', with a morphologically altered main verb.

:*conditional ability: ''I could do that if I knew how to swim''.  In the past one can say ''I could have done that if I had known how to swim''.

:*slight intention in the present: ''I could do that for you (and maybe I will)''.  There is no past equivalent.

*''need'':  ''Need'' can be used as a present tense modal auxiliary, indicating necessity, that is invariant for person/number in questions and negatives only: ''Need he go?'', ''He need not go''.  The corresponding past tense constructions are ''Need he have gone?'', ''He need not have gone''.

*''dare'':  ''Dare'' can be used as a present tense modal auxiliary that is invariant for person/number in questions and negatives only:  ''Dare he go?'', ''He dare not go''.

==巴斯克語==
{{Main|Basque verbs}}

Although several verbal categories are expressed purely morphologically in Basque,<ref>King, Alan R., ''The Basque language: A practical introduction'', University of Nevada Press, 1994: pp. 362ff. ISBN 0-87417-155-5.</ref> periphrastic verbal formations predominate.  For the few verbs that have synthetic conjugations, Basque has forms for past tense continuous aspect (state or ongoing action) and present tense continuous aspect, as well as imperative mood.

In the compound verbal constructions, there are forms for the indicative mood, the conditional mood, a mood for conditional possibility ("would be able to"), an imperative mood, a mood of ability or possibility, a mood for hypothetical "if" clauses in the present or future time, a counterfactual mood in the past tense, and a subjunctive mood (used mostly in literary style in complement clauses and purpose/wish clauses).  Within the indicative mood, there is a present tense habitual aspect form (which can also be used with stative verbs), a past tense habitual aspect form (which also can be used with stative verbs), a near past tense form, a remote past tense form (which can also be used to convey past perspective on an immediately prior situation or event), a future-in-the-past form (which can also be used modally for a conjecture about the past or as a conditional result of a counterfactual premise), and a future tense form (which can also be used for the modality of present conjecture, especially with a lexically stative verb, or of determination/intention).

There are also some constructions showing an even greater degree of periphrasis: one for progressive aspect, and ones for the modalities of volition ("want to"), necessity/obligation ("have to", "need to"), and ability ("be able to").

==夏威夷語==
{{Main|Hawaiian grammar}}

Hawaiian<ref name=Dahl/>{{rp|ch.6;}}.<ref>Pukui, Mary Kawena, and Samuel H. Elbert, ''New Pocket Hawaiian Dictionary'', U. of Hawaii Press, 1992: grammar section, pp. 225–243.</ref> is an [[isolating_language|isolating language]], so its verbal grammar exclusively relies on unconjugated auxiliary verbs.  It has indicative and imperative mood forms, the imperative indicated by ''e'' + verb (or in the negative by ''mai'' + verb).  In the indicative its tense/aspect forms are: unmarked (used generically and for the habitual aspect as well as the perfective aspect for past time); ''ua'' + verb (perfective aspect, but frequently replaced by the unmarked form); ''ke'' + verb + ''nei'' (present tense progressive aspect; very frequently used); and ''e'' + verb + ''ana'' (imperfective aspect, especially for non-present time).

Modality is expressed non-grammatically in Hawaiian:<ref>Alexander, W. D., ''Introduction to Hawaiian Grammar'', Dover Publ., 2004</ref>{{rp|pp. 38–39}} ''Pono'' conveys obligation/necessity as in ''He pono i na kamali'i a pau e maka'ala'', "It's right for children all to beware", "All children should/must beware"; ability is conveyed by ''hiki'' as in ''Ua hiki i keia kamali'i ke heluhelu'' "Has enabled to this child to read", "This child can read".
-->

==註釋==
{{reflist|2}}

==參見==
* [[名物化的時體氣|名物化的時體氣]](Nominal TAM)
* [[斯科立夫動貌詞|斯科立夫動貌詞]](Screeve) - 在[[南高加索语系|南高加索语系]]類似的概念。

{{DEFAULTSORT:Tense-aspect-mood}}
[[Category:語氣|Category:語氣]]
[[Category:語法體|Category:語法體]]
[[Category:語法時態|Category:語法時態]]
[[Category:語言學的時間|Category:語言學的時間]]