{{Link style|time=2015-12-12T06:12:33+00:00}}
{{Distinguish|通用语言}}

'''通用表意文字'''（[[拉丁语|拉丁语]]术语为'''''characteristica universalis'''''；[[英语|英语]]当中常解释为 ''universal characteristic'' 或 ''universal character''；[[中文|中文]]之中又常常称为'''普遍表意文字'''、'''普遍语言'''、'''''通用语言'''''、'''普适语言'''以及'''普适科学语言'''等），是德国[[哲学家|哲学家]][[戈特弗里德·莱布尼茨|戈特弗里德·莱布尼茨]]所设想的一种通用的[[形式化语言|形式化语言]]；该语言能够表达[[数学|数学]]、[[科学|科学]]以及[[形而上学|形而上学]]（纯粹哲学）方面的[[概念|概念]]。莱布尼茨希望创建的是一种可以在通用逻辑运算或者说{{Link-en|推理演算|Calculus ratiocinator}}框架之下加以使用的[[语言|语言]]。

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
On Leibniz's lifelong interest in the ''characteristica'' and the like, see the following texts in Loemker (1969): 165–66, 192–95, 221–28, 248–50, and 654–66. On the ''characteristica'', see Rutherford (1995) and the still-classic discussion in Couturat (1901: chpts. 3,4). Also relevant to the ''characteristica'' is Mates's (1986: 183–88) discussion of what he called the ''lingua philosophica''.

* Brown, M. T., 2004, "A picture is worth a thousand words: energy systems language and simulation," ''Ecological Modelling 178'': 83–100.
* Bulcsu P. G., 1986, "Formalization of the Iconic Language for Structured Analysis and Symbolic Logic," [A STRUKTURALT ANALIZIS (SA) IKONIKUS NYELVENEK FORMALIZALASA ES A SZIMBOLIKUS LOGIKA.] ''Meres es Automatika 34'': 315–22.
* [[鲁道夫·卡尔纳普|Rudolf Carnap]], 1958. ''Introduction to Symbolic Logic with Applications''. Dover.
* —, 1967. ''The Logical Structure of the World: Pseudoproblems in Philosophy''. University of California Press. Translation of his 1928 ''Der Logische Aufbau der Welt''. Leipzig: Felix Meiner Verlag.
* Cevolatti, D., and Maud, S., 2004, "Realising the Enlightenment: H. T. Odum's Energy Systems Language ''qua'' G. W. v. Leibniz's ''Characteristica Universalis''", ''Ecological Modelling 178'': 279–92.
* Cohen, C. Jonathan., 1954, "On the project of a universal character," ''Mind'' (New Series) ''63'': 249.
*[[:en:Louis_Couturat|Louis Couturat]], 1901. ''La Logique de Leibniz''. Paris: Felix Alcan. [https://web.archive.org/web/20060207025559/http://philosophy2.ucsd.edu/~rutherford/Leibniz/intro.htm Donald Rutherford's English translation in progress.]
* [[:en:Louis_Couturat|Louis Couturat]], O. Jespersen, R. Lorenz, [[Wilhelm_Ostwald|Wilhelm Ostwald]] and L.Pfaundler 1910, ''International Language and Science: Considerations on the Introduction of an International Language into Science", Constable and Company Limited, London.
* Dascal, M., 1987. ''Leibniz: Language, Signs and Thought, A Collection of Essays''. Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
* [[:en:Martin_Davis|Martin Davis]], 2001. ''Engines of Logic: Mathematicians and the Origin of the Computer''. W W Norton.
* Dawson, J. W. Jr., 1997. ''Logical Dilemmas: The Life and Work of Kurt Gödel''. Wellesley MA: A. K. Peters.
*Fearnley-Sander, Desmond, 1982, "Hermann Grassmann and the Prehistory of Universal Algebra," ''The American Mathematical Monthly 89'': 161–66.
*[[:en:Alexander_Gode|Gode, Alexander]], 1951, ''[[:en:Interlingua–English_Dictionary|Interlingua-English Dictionary]]''. New York: Storm Publishers.
*[[:en:Nelson_Goodman|Nelson Goodman]], 1977 (1951). ''The Structure of Appearance''. Reidel.
* [[雅各·辛提卡|Jaakko Hintikka]], 1997. ''Lingua Universalis vs. Calculus Ratiocinator. An ultimate presupposition of Twentieth-century philosophy''. Kluwer.
* Jaenecke, P., 1996, "Elementary principles for representing knowledge," ''Knowledge Organization 23'': 88–102.
* Kluge, E. H. W., 1980, "Frege, Leibniz and the notion of an ideal language," ''Studia Leibnitiana 12'': 140–54.
* [[:en:Clarence_Irving_Lewis|Clarence Irving Lewis]], 1960 (1918).'' A Survey of Symbolic Logic''. Dover.
* Loemker, Leroy, ed. and trans., 1969. ''Leibniz: Philosophical Papers and Letters''. Synthese Historical Library. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
* Mates, Benson, 1986. ''The Philosophy of Leibniz''. Oxford Univ. Press.
* Odum, E.C., Odum, H.T. and Peterson, N.S., 1995, "Using Simulation to Introduce the Systems Approach in Education" in Hall, C.S., ed., ''Maximum Power: The Ideas and Applications of H. T. Odum''. Colorado Univ. Press: 346–52.
* Parkinson, G. H. R., ed. and trans., 1966. ''Leibniz: Logical Papers''. Oxford Univ. Press.
* —, and Mary Morris, trans., 1973. ''Leibniz: Philosophical Writings''. London: J M Dent.
* Piper, R. F. 1957, "Review of 'Unified Symbolism for World Understanding in Science' by Oliver L. Reiser," ''Philosophy and Phenomenological Research 17'': 432–33.
* Reiser, Oliver Leslie 1946. ''A philosophy for world unification;: Scientific humanismas an ideology for cultural integration'', Haldeman-Julius Publications.
* —, 1940. ''The Promise of Scientific Humanism Toward a Unification of Scientific, Religious, Social and Economic Thought'', Oskar Piest.
* –, 1955. ''Unified symbolism for world understanding in science: Including Bliss symbols (semantography) and logic, cybernetics and semantics'', Semantography Pub. Co.
*[[:en:Nicholas_Rescher|Nicholas Rescher]], 1954, "Review of ''On the Project of a Universal Character'' by Jonathan Cohen," ''Journal of Symbolic Logic 19'': 133.
* [[:en:Hartley_Rogers,_Jr.|Hartley Rogers]], Jr., 1963, "An Example in Mathematical Logic," ''The American Mathematical Monthly 70'': 929–45.
* Rutherford, Donald, 1995, "Philosophy and language" in Jolley, N., ed., ''The Cambridge Companion to Leibniz''. Cambridge Univ. Press.
* [[:en:Patrick_Suppes|Patrick Suppes]], 1999 (1957). ''Introduction to Logic''. Dover.
* [[:en:Jean_van_Heijenoort|Jean van Heijenoort]], 1967, "Logic as calculus and logic as language," ''Synthese 17'': 324–330. Reprinted in Hintikka (1997).
* Wiener, Philip P., 1940, "Leibniz's Project of a Public Exhibition of Scientific Inventions," ''Journal of the History of Ideas 1'': 232–240.
* Woodger, Joseph H., 1937, ''The axiomatic method in biology'', Cambridge University Press.
* Yen, D.C., Huang, S.-M., Ku, C.-Y. 2002, The impact and implementation of XML on business-to-business commerce, ''Computer Standards and Interfaces 24'': 347–62.
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
*Corazzon, Raul, 2010, "[http://www.ontology.co/two-views-language.htm Language as Calculus vs. Language as Universal Medium]". Includes bibliography, links to online papers, and passages from the writings of [[Jaakko_Hintikka|Jaakko Hintikka]] and [[:en:Jean_van_Heijenoort|Jean van Heijenoort]].
* Rotha, Paul, 1946, "[http://www.fulltable.com/iso/is03.htm From Hieroglyphs to Isotypes]".
*Smith, Barry, 1978, "{{PDFlink|[http://ontology.buffalo.edu/smith/articles/EinFO.pdf An Essay in Formal Ontology,]|936 [[Kibibyte|KiB]]<!-- application/pdf, 959102 bytes -->}}" ''Grazer Philosophische Studien 6'': 39–62.
*—, 1990, "{{PDFlink|[http://ontology.buffalo.edu/smith//articles/charuniv.pdf Characteristica Universalis]|207 [[Kibibyte|KiB]]<!-- application/pdf, 212574 bytes -->}}" in K. Mulligan, ed., ''Language, Truth and Ontology'', (Philosophical Studies Series). Kluwer: 50–81.

[[category:戈特弗里德·萊布尼茨|category:戈特弗里德·萊布尼茨]]
[[Category:邏輯語言|Category:邏輯語言]]
[[Category:思想史|Category:思想史]]