{{Infobox anthem
|title         = Angola Avante!
|chinese_title = 安哥拉前进！
|image         = Emblem of Angola.svg
|image_size    = 150
|caption       = [[安哥拉国徽|安哥拉国徽]]
|prefix        = 国歌
|country       = {{AGO}}
|author        = 曼努埃尔·路易·阿尔维斯·蒙特罗
|lyrics_date   =
|composer      = 路易·阿尔贝托·维埃拉·迪亚斯·明加斯
|music_date    =
|adopted       = 1975
|sound         =
|sound_title   = 安哥拉前进
}}

《'''安哥拉前进！'''》是[[安哥拉|安哥拉]]的[[國歌|國歌]]。曼努埃尔·路易·阿尔维斯·蒙特罗（1941－）填詞，路易·阿尔贝托·维埃拉·迪亚斯·明加斯（1939－）作曲。歌词中提及的2月4日指的是1961年2月4日，为安哥拉独立战争爆发之日。

== 歌詞 ==
{| cellpadding="6"; align="left"
!|葡萄牙語原文||英語翻譯||汉语翻译
|-
|
Ó Pátria, nunca mais esqueceremos <br />
Os heróis do quatro de Fevereiro.<br />
Ó Pátria, nós saudamos os teus filhos<br />
Tombados pela nossa Independência.<br />
Honramos o passado e a nossa História,<br />
Construindo no Trabalho o Homem novo,<br />
''(repeat previous two lines)''

CHORUS<br />
Angola, avante!<br />
Revolução, pelo Poder Popular!<br />
Pátria Unida, Liberdade,<br />
Um só povo, uma só Nação!<br />
''(repeat chorus)''

Levantemos nossas vozes libertadas<br />
Para glória dos povos africanos.<br />
Marchemos, combatentes angolanos,<br />
Solidários com os povos oprimidos.<br />
Orgulhosos lutaremos Pela Paz<br />
Com as forças progressistas do mundo.<br />
''(repeat previous two lines)''

CHORUS

||

O Fatherland, we shall never forget<br />
The heroes of the Fourth of February. <br />
O Fatherland, we salute your sons <br />
Who died for our Independence. <br />
We honor the past and our history <br />
As by our work we build the New Man.<br />
''(repeat previous two lines)''

CHORUS<br />
Forward, Angola!<br />
Revolution through the power of the People!<br />
A United Country, Freedom, <br />
One People, one Nation!<br />
''(repeat chorus)''

Let us raise our liberated voices<br />
To the glory of the peoples of Africa.<br />
We shall march, Angolan fighters, <br />
In solidarity with oppressed peoples.<br />
We shall fight proudly for Peace <br />
Along with the progressive forces of the world.<br />
''(repeat previous two lines)''

CHORUS
||
啊，祖国，我们决不忘记，<br />
二月四日的英雄。<br />
啊，祖国，我们向你英勇的儿女致敬，<br />
那些为了自由而牺牲的同胞。<br />
我们为光荣的历史而感到自豪，<br />
我们劳动着创造新的民族。<br />
''（上两行反复一遍）''<br />

'''合唱''' <br />
安哥拉，前进！<br />
人民的力量推动了革命！<br />
统一自由的国家，<br />
同一个民族，同一个国家！<br />
''（合唱反复一遍）''<br /> 
<br />
让非洲人民的荣耀<br />
提高我们发出解放的呼声。<br />
我们将要前进，安哥拉的战士们，<br />
团结被压迫的人们，<br />
与全世界的进步力量一道，<br />
为了和平光荣的并肩作战。<br />
''（上两行反复一遍）''<br />

'''合唱'''
|}
{{Clear|left}}

== 外部連結 ==
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20060617194340/http://www.angola.org.uk/sounds/angola.mid MIDI file]
* [https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=tmeNov1IaT8 Angola National Anthem (Instrumental)]


[[分類:安哥拉|歌]]
{{非洲各國家和地区國歌}}