{{Infobox person
|name          = 安德里亞·德沃金
|image         = Dworkin on After Dark.JPG
|image_size    =200
|alt           =
|caption       = 安德里亞·德沃金, 1988
|birth_name    =
|birth_date    = {{birth date|1946|9|26|mf=y}}
|birth_place   = [[新澤西州|新澤西州]][[肯頓_(新澤西州)|肯頓]]
|death_date    = {{death date and age|mf=yes|2005|4|9|1946|9|26}}
|death_place   = [[華盛頓哥倫比亞特區|華盛頓哥倫比亞特區]]
|body_discovered =
|death_cause   = [[心肌炎|心肌炎]]
|resting_place =
|resting_place_coordinates = 
|residence     =
|nationality   = {{USA}}
|ethnicity     =
|citizenship   =
|other_names   =
|known_for     = [[基進女性主義|基進女性主義]]、[[反色情運動|反色情運動]]
|education     = 文學學士
|alma_mater    = [[本寧頓學院|本寧頓學院]]
|employer      =
|occupation    = 作家
|years_active  = 1966年－2005年
|home_town     =
|religion      =
|spouse        = [[約翰·史托爾滕貝格|約翰·史托爾滕貝格]]
|partner       =
|children      =
|parents       = Harry Dworkin 和 Sylvia Spiegel
|relations     = Mark Spiegel (兄弟)
|callsign      =
|awards        =
|signature     =
|signature_alt =
|website       = [https://web.archive.org/web/20030402193857/http://www.isiswomen.org/wia/wia398/vaw00006.html www.andreadworkin.com]
|footnotes     =
|box_width     = 
}}
'''安德里亞·麗塔·德沃金'''（{{lang-en|Andrea Rita Dworkin}}，{{bd|1949年|9月26日|2005年|4月9日|catIdx=D}}）是美國[[基進女性主義|基進女性主義者]]，以她對[[色情|色情]]的觀點著稱，認為色情與[[強姦|強暴]]和其他針對婦女的暴力密切相關。

==作品==
除了这里列出的书籍，文章和演讲，她写的诗集，写的其他文章，和一些她的作品被翻译成其他语言。<ref>[http://h-net.msu.edu/cgi-bin/logbrowse.pl?trx=vx&list=H-Women&month=0504&week=b&msg=4df/tu7bqMFY6gQsMcvpAQ&user=&pw= Richards, Deborah, ''Andrea Dworkin September 26, 1946 – April 9, 2005'', Apr. 12, 2005, in ''H-Women'', on ''Humanities and Social Sciences Net Online'' (discussion list message) ("John Stoltenberg has sent these items this morning; they were prepared by Andrea Dworkin")] {{Wayback|url=http://h-net.msu.edu/cgi-bin/logbrowse.pl?trx=vx&list=H-Women&month=0504&week=b&msg=4df%2Ftu7bqMFY6gQsMcvpAQ&user=&pw= |date=20160425152424 }}, as accessed Oct. 8, 2010.</ref>

===非小说类===
* ''Heartbreak: The Political Memoir of a Feminist Militant'' (2002) ISBN 0-465-01754-1
* ''Scapegoat: The Jews, Israel, and Women's Liberation'' (2000) ISBN 0-684-83612-2
* ''Life and Death: Unapologetic Writings on the Continuing War Against Women'' (1997) ISBN 0-684-83512-6
* ''In Harm’s Way: The Pornography Civil Rights Hearings'' (with Catharine MacKinnon, 1997) ISBN 0-674-44579-1
* ''Letters from a War Zone: Writings'' (1988) ISBN 1-55652-185-5 ISBN 0-525-24824-2 ISBN 0-436-13962-6
* ''Pornography and Civil Rights: A New Day for Women's Equality'' (1988) ISBN 0-9621849-0-X
* ''[[Intercourse_(book)|Intercourse]]'' (1987) ISBN 0-684-83239-9
* ''Right-Wing Women: The Politics of Domesticated Females'' (1983) ISBN 0-399-50671-3
* ''Pornography—Men Possessing Women'' (1981) ISBN 0-399-50532-6 
* ''Our Blood: Prophesies and Discourses on Sexual Politics'' (1976) ISBN 0-399-50575-X ISBN 0-06-011116-X
* ''Woman Hating: A Radical Look at Sexuality'' (Dutton, 1974) ISBN 0-452-26827-3 ISBN 0-525-48397-7

===小说和诗歌===
* ''Mercy'' (1990, ISBN 0-941423-88-3)
* ''Ice and Fire'' (1986, ISBN 0-436-13960-X)
* ''The New Woman's Broken Heart: Short Stories'' (1980, ISBN 0-9603628-0-0)
* ''Morning Hair'' (自费出版 1968)
* ''Child'' (1966) 

===文章===
* Marx and Gandhi were Liberals: Feminism and the "Radical" Left (1977 (ASIN B0006XEJCG))
* Why So-called Radical Men Love and Need Pornography (1978 (ASIN B0006XX57G))
* Against the Male Flood: Censorship, Pornography and Equality (1985 (ASIN B00073AVJA))
* The Reasons Why: Essays on the New Civil Rights Law Recognizing Pornography as Sex Discrimination (1985 (ASIN B000711OSO))
* Pornography is a Civil Rights Issue for Women (1986 (ASIN B00071HFYG))
* A Good Rape. (1996 (ASIN B0008DT8DE)) (书评)
* Out of the Closet.(Normal: Transsexual CEOs, Cross-Dressing Cops and Hermaphrodites with Attitude) (1996 (ASIN B0008E679Q)) (书评)
* The Day I Was Drugged and Raped (1996 (ASIN B0008IYNJS))
* Are You Listening, Hillary? President Rape Is Who He Is (1999) (片段)<ref>[http://andreadworkin.com/hillary/index.html  ''Are You Listening, Hillary? President Rape Is Who He Is'', by Andrea Dworkin, with ''Note from John Stoltenberg, May 25, 2007''] {{Wayback|url=http://andreadworkin.com/hillary/index.html |date=20210403055537 }}, as accessed Aug. 3, 2010.</ref>

===演讲和采访===
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20030402193857/http://www.isiswomen.org/wia/wia398/vaw00006.html 为什么男人都这么喜欢色情] 安德里亞·德沃金1989年的主题演讲。（音频文件：22分，128 kbit / s的MP3）
* [http://andreadworkin.com/audio/attgeneralcommNYC_M.mp3 安德里亞·德沃金的总检察长事务委员会的证词] {{Wayback|url=http://andreadworkin.com/audio/attgeneralcommNYC_M.mp3 |date=20110811114751 }}关于色情和卖淫
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20030402193857/http://www.isiswomen.org/wia/wia398/vaw00006.html 暴力，虐待和布赖顿女性公民]，英国1996年11月10日
* [http://andreadworkin.com/audio/strikingback/ “现在就要自由：终止暴力侵害妇女”] {{Wayback|url=http://andreadworkin.com/audio/strikingback/ |date=20110811115013 }}
* [http://www.andreadworkin.com/audio/duke01.85_M.mp3 “杜克大学，1985年1月的讲话”] {{Wayback|url=http://www.andreadworkin.com/audio/duke01.85_M.mp3 |date=20150923172141 }}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20030402193857/http://www.isiswomen.org/wia/wia398/vaw00006.html 电话采访录音]-安德里亞·德沃金采访艾伦·金斯堡，1990年5月9日（音频文件，20分钟，128 kbit / s的MP3）
* ''Dworkin on Dworkin'', ''ca.'' 1980<ref>Dworkin, Andrea, ''Dworkin on Dworkin'', in [[Diane_Bell|Bell, Diane]], & Renate Klein, eds., ''Radically Speaking: Feminism Reclaimed'' ([[North_Melbourne,_Victoria|N. Melbourne, Vic., Australia]]: Spinifex, 1996 (ISBN 1 875559 38 8)), pp. 203–217 (ed. Bell then prof. religion, economic development, & social justice, [[College_of_the_Holy_Cross|Coll. of the Holy Cross]], Mass., U.S., & ed. Klein then sr. lecturer & dep. dir., Australian Women's Research Centre, [[Deakin_University|Deakin Univ.]], as reprinted from ''Dworkin on Dworkin'', in ''Trouble and Strife'', vol. or no. 19 (Summer, 1990), pp. 2–13 (itself from Braeman, Elizabeth, and Carol Cox, title not stated, in ''Off Our Backs'' (probably ''[[off_our_backs|off our backs]]'') (10th birthday issue).</ref>

===相关工作===
她是美国传统词典的用法专题小组中的一员。<ref>''The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language'' (Boston, Mass.: Houghton Mifflin, 3d ed. 1992 (ISBN 0-395-44895-6)), p. xii (The Usage Panel); the panel is discussed at ''id.'', p. vi (Introduction).</ref>

{{Portal|女权主义}}

==参考资料==
{{Reflist|2}}

==外部链接==
* [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/obituaries/culture-obituaries/1487683/Andrea-Dworkin.html 安德里亞·德沃金] {{Wayback|url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/obituaries/culture-obituaries/1487683/Andrea-Dworkin.html |date=20190430194740 }} – 《每日电讯报》的讣告
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20030402193857/http://www.isiswomen.org/wia/wia398/vaw00006.html 安德里亞·德沃金的网站门户]，由[[Nikki_Craft|Nikki Craft]]维护
* [http://www.nostatusquo.com/ACLU/dworkin/OnlineLibrary.html 安德里亞·德沃金官方在线图书馆] {{Wayback|url=http://www.nostatusquo.com/ACLU/dworkin/OnlineLibrary.html |date=20201204090946 }}，由[[Nikki_Craft|Nikki Craft]]维护
* [http://www.andreadworkin.net/ 安德里亞·德沃金纪念页] {{Wayback|url=http://www.andreadworkin.net/ |date=20210127110742 }}，由[[Nikki_Craft|Nikki Craft]]维护
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20121122171702/http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/authors/a/andrea_dworkin.html 安德里亞·德沃金语录]

{{DEFAULTSORT:Dworkin, Andrea}}
[[Category:美國無政府主義者|Category:美國無政府主義者]]
[[Category:美國女性主義者|Category:美國女性主義者]]
[[Category:美國小說家|Category:美國小說家]]
[[Category:反色情運動家|Category:反色情運動家]]
[[Category:猶太裔美國作家|Category:猶太裔美國作家]]
[[Category:荷兰的美国侨民|Category:荷兰的美国侨民]]
[[Category:女同性戀作家|Category:女同性戀作家]]
[[Category:LGBT女性主義者|Category:LGBT女性主義者]]
[[Category:LGBT猶太人|Category:LGBT猶太人]]
[[Category:美國LGBT作家|Category:美國LGBT作家]]
[[Category:本寧頓學院校友|Category:本寧頓學院校友]]
[[Category:女性主義理論家|Category:女性主義理論家]]
[[Category:匈牙利犹太裔美国人|Category:匈牙利犹太裔美国人]]
[[Category:俄罗斯犹太裔美国人|Category:俄罗斯犹太裔美国人]]
[[Category:华盛顿哥伦比亚特区病死者|Category:华盛顿哥伦比亚特区病死者]]
[[Category:女同性戀學者|Category:女同性戀學者]]