{{Expand language}}
{{Infobox Former Country
| native_name = {{native name|fr|Empire Plantagenêt}}<ref>
The term ''imperium'' is used at least once in the 12th century, in the ''Dialogus de Scaccari'' ({{c.|1179}}),
''Per longa terrarum spatia triumphali victoria suum dilataverit imperium'' (Canchy, England, p. 118; Holt, 'The End of the Anglo-Norman Realm', p. 229). Some 20th-century historians have avoided the term ''empire'', 
Robert-Henri Bautier (1984) used ''espace Plantagenêt'', Jean Favier used ''complexe féodal''.
'' Empire Plantagenêt'' nevertheless remains current in French historiography.
{{Cite book|title = L'Empire des Plantagenêt, 1154–1224|last = Aurell|first = Martin|publisher = Perrin|year = 2003|isbn = 9782262019853|pages = 1}}
</ref>
| conventional_long_name = 安茹帝國
| common_name = 安茹
| era = 中世紀
| status = [[共主邦聯|共主邦聯]]、帝國
| government_type = [[封建制度|封建]]君主制
| year_start = 1154年
| year_end = 1259年<!-- Must be numeric for categorization to work -->
| life_span = 1154年–1214年
| event_start = [[亨利二世_(英格蘭)|安茹伯爵亨利]]繼承[[英格蘭王國|英格蘭]]
| date_start = 10月25日
| event_end = [[巴黎條約_(1259年)|巴黎條約]]
| date_end = 12月4日
| event1 = [[布汶戰役|布汶戰役]]，丟失了諾曼第和安茹
| date_event1 = 1214年7月27日
| image_flag = Royal Banner of England.svg
| flag = 安茹帝國的皇家橫幅
| flag_type = 皇家橫幅<br />(1198年後首用)
| flag_alt = The royal banner of England: a red flag with three pale golden lions passant guardant with blue claws and tongues, each on its own row.
| image_coat = Royal Arms of England (1198-1340).svg
| symbol_type = 皇家徽章
| symbol_type_article = Royal arms of England
| coat_alt = The royal arms of England: on a red shield three pale golden lions passant guardant with blue claws and tongues, each on its own row.
| image_map = Henry II, Plantagenet Empire.png
| image_map_caption = 安茹帝國極盛，於1189年
| capital = 沒有固定首都，法庭一般在[[昂熱|昂熱]]和[[希農|希農]]舉行。<br>國王大多定居於法蘭西領土。
| common_languages = [[古法語|古法語]] (通用語言)<br>[[拉丁語|拉丁語]] (官方語言)
----諾曼第 ([[諾曼法語|諾曼法語]])、英格蘭上層 ([[盎格魯-諾曼語|盎格魯-諾曼語]])、英格蘭下層 ([[中古英語|中古英語]])、阿基坦 ([[普瓦圖方言|普瓦圖方言]]、[[奧克語|奧克語]]、[[巴斯克語|巴斯克語]])、威爾士 ([[中古威爾斯語|中古威爾斯語]])、布列塔尼 ([[布列塔尼語|布列塔尼語]])、愛爾蘭 ([[中古愛爾蘭語|中古愛爾蘭語]]）
| religion = [[天主教會|羅馬公教]] (官方)
| currency = [[里弗爾|里弗爾]]、銀便士、金便士
| title_leader = 國王、親王、公爵、伯爵、爵士
| leader1 = [[亨利二世_(英格蘭)|亨利二世]]
| year_leader1 = 1154年–1189年
| leader2 = [[理查一世|理查一世]]
| year_leader2 = 1189年–1199年
| leader3 = [[约翰_(英格兰国王)|约翰一世]]
| year_leader3 = 1199年–1216年 <small>(安茹帝國實質瓦解於1214年)</small>
| leader4 = [[亨利三世_(英格蘭)|亨利三世]]
| year_leader4 = 1216年–1259年 <small>(''[[de_jure|de jure]]''統治)</small>
| today = {{plainlist|
*法國
*根西
*愛爾蘭
*聯合王國}}
|demonym=|area_km2=|area_rank=|GDP_PPP=|GDP_PPP_year=|HDI=|HDI_year=}}
'''安茹帝国'''（Angevin empire）是一个历史术语，是历史学家对[[金雀花王朝|金雀花王朝]]统治[[英格兰|英格兰]]和[[法国|法兰西]]西部时代的称号。

12世纪后半叶开始，由[[英格兰国王|英格兰国王]][[亨利二世_(英格兰)|亨利二世]]和他的继承人[[理查一世|理查一世]]和[[约翰_(英格兰国王)|约翰]]统治的安茹帝国。安茹帝国幅员从[[苏格兰|苏格兰]]直到[[比利牛斯山|比利牛斯山]]。因为亨利的父亲为[[安茹伯爵|安茹伯爵]]，因此三位国王都称为安茹国王。1150年，亨利二世为[[诺曼底公爵|诺曼第公爵]]，1151年，亨利二世为[[安茹伯爵|安茹伯爵]]，1152年，与[[阿基坦的埃莉诺|阿基坦的埃莉诺]]结婚，成为[[阿基坦|阿基坦]]公国的继承人。1171年亨利二世之子[[若弗鲁瓦二世_(布列塔尼)|杰弗里]]任[[布列塔尼公爵|布列塔尼公爵]]，[[布列塔尼半岛|布列塔尼]]也并入安茹帝国。1154年亨利二世成为英格兰国王，直接统治全英格兰和南威尔士，对北威尔士的领土圭内斯有宗主权。1171年，安茹王国吞并[[爱尔兰|爱尔兰]]。1174年—1189年[[苏格兰|苏格兰]]臣服于亨利二世。1214年亨利二世的儿子约翰因为丧失了在[[歐洲大陸|欧洲大陆]]除[[吉耶讷|吉耶讷]]以外的领土而被称为[[约翰_(英格兰国王)|无地王约翰]]。
{{帝国}}
[[分类:金雀花王朝|分类:金雀花王朝]]
[[分类:安茹伯爵|分类:安茹伯爵]]
[[Category:已不存在的欧洲帝国|Category:已不存在的欧洲帝国]]
[[Category:13世纪英格兰|Category:13世纪英格兰]]