'''狄奧尼修斯·伊希格斯'''（{{lang-la|Dionysius Exiguus}} {{bd|470年||544年|}}）是一个六世纪出生于小赛西亚的僧侣。以发明了[[基督纪年|基督纪年]]而知名。该纪年被[[儒略历|儒略历]]和[[格里高利历|格里高利历]]用来计算年份。

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
* Bonnie Blackburn, Leofranc Holford-Strevens, "Calendars and chronology", ''The Oxford companion to the year'' (Oxford, 1999), 659–937.
* Bonnie Blackburn, Leofranc Holford-Strevens, ''The Oxford companion to the year'' (Oxford, 2003, a corrected reprinting of the 1999 original edition).
* Georges Declercq, ''Anno Domini: The origins of the Christian era'' (Turnhout, 2000);  idem, "Dionysius Exiguus and the introduction of the Christian era", ''Sacris Erudiri'' '''41''' (2002): 165–246.
* Dionysius Exiguus, ''Patrologia Latina'' '''67''' (works).
**[http://hbar.phys.msu.ru/gorm/chrono/paschata.htm Cyclus Decemnovennalis Dionysii – Nineteen year cycle of Dionysius] {{Wayback|url=http://hbar.phys.msu.ru/gorm/chrono/paschata.htm |date=20161226031734 }} (original Easter table)
**[http://www.tertullian.org/fathers/dionysius_exiguus_easter_01.htm On Easter] {{Wayback|url=http://www.tertullian.org/fathers/dionysius_exiguus_easter_01.htm |date=20210223193910 }} – with preface
**[http://www.henk-reints.nl/cal/audette/denys.html Liber de Paschate (Latin text)] {{Wayback|url=http://www.henk-reints.nl/cal/audette/denys.html |date=20210310043703 }}
* Duta, Florian, "Des précisions sur la biographie de Denys le Petit", ''Revue de droit canonique'', 49: 279–96 (1999)
* Charles W. Jones, "Development of the Latin ecclesiastical calendar", in ''Bedae opera de temporibus'' (Cambridge, Mass., 1943), 1–122.
* Otto Neugebauer, ''Ethiopic astronomy and computus'', Österreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften, philosophisch-historische klasse, sitzungsberichte, '''347''' (Vienna, 1979).
* Gustav Teres, "Time computations and Dionysius Exiguus", ''Journal for the history of astronomy'', '''15''' (1984): 177–188.
* Nick Squires – [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/religion/the-pope/9693576/Jesus-was-born-years-earlier-than-thought-claims-Pope.html ''Jesus was born years earlier than thought, claims Pope''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/religion/the-pope/9693576/Jesus-was-born-years-earlier-than-thought-claims-Pope.html |date=20121122104227 }}, ''[[The_Daily_Telegraph|The Telegraph]]'', 21 Nov. 2012
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
*Modern version of [https://web.archive.org/web/20070312052923/http://www.janzuidhoek.net/diony2.htm Dionysius Exiguus' Easter table] (original version is linked in [[#References|References]])

{{小条目}}
{{Authority control}}

[[Category:修士|Category:修士]]
[[Category:罗马尼亚基督教|Category:罗马尼亚基督教]]
[[Category:希腊文—拉丁文翻译家|Category:希腊文—拉丁文翻译家]]
[[Category:拜占庭法学家|Category:拜占庭法学家]]
[[Category:拜占庭科學家|Category:拜占庭科學家]]
[[Category:5世纪拜占庭人|Category:5世纪拜占庭人]]
[[Category:6世紀拜占庭人|Category:6世紀拜占庭人]]
[[Category:教会法学家|Category:教会法学家]]
[[Category:6世紀基督徒|Category:6世紀基督徒]]
[[Category:中世纪法学家|Category:中世纪法学家]]