{{Infobox person
| name        = 托马斯·卡文迪什
| image       = Thomas Cavendish.jpg
| alt         = 300px
| caption     = 托马斯·卡文迪什像
| birth_date  = 1560年 
| birth_place = 
| death_date  = 1592年
| death_place =
| ethnicity   = [[英国人|英国人]]
| other_names = 
| known_for   = 环球航行
| occupation  = [[航海家|航海家]]和[[探险家|探险家]]
}}
'''托马斯·卡文迪什'''（{{lang-en|Thomas Cavendish}}，{{bd|1560年||1592年|}}），[[文艺复兴时期|文艺复兴时期]][[欧洲|欧洲]][[航海家|航海家]]。<ref>Cormack 1997:''England''</ref>他的一身兼船长与[[探险家|探险家]]双重身份，于16世纪中后期成功率领其船队实现环球航行，成为第二个此举的[[英国人|英国人]]。<ref>Sandra Sider.（2007）. ''Handbook to Life in Renaissance Europe''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195330847.</ref><ref>Buisseret 1992:''political applications''</ref>

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

==扩展阅读==
*David Judkins (2003), "Cavendish, Thomas (1560-1592)" in ''Literature of Travel and Exploration: An Encyclopedia'', volume 1.
*Peter Edwards, editor (1988). ''Last Voyages: Cavendish, Judson, Ralegh: The Original Narratives''. Oxford. ISBN 0-19-812894-0
*[[Richard_Hakluyt|Richard Hakluyt]]. Chapter: "The prosperous voyage of the worshipful Thomas Candish..", in ''Voyages and Discoveries: Principal Navigations, Voyages, Traffiques & Discoveries of the English Nation''. Found in volume 8 of the 1907 Everyman's Library edition. Also found in Penguin edition ISBN 0-14-043073-3
*Shurtz, William Lytle; "The Manila Galleon"; p. 303-314; E. P. Dutton & Company, New York, 1939—one of the more complete references

==外部链接==
*John D. Neville. [http://www.nps.gov/fora/cavendish.htm "History of Thomas Cavendish"], Heritage Education Program, US National Park Service.
*[[Christian_Isobel_Johnstone|Christian Isobel Johnstone]] (1831). [http://books.google.com/books?vid=05dRzDU3-jxJUcJJ&id=JtkDAAAAQAAJ ''Lives and Voyages of Drake, Cavendish, and Dampier'']. Oliver & Boyd. From [[Google_Books|Google Books]].
*Christian Isobel Johnstone (1892). [http://www.archive.org/details/earlyenglishvoya00johniala ''Early English voyagers : or, The adventures and discoveries of Drake, Cavendish, and Dampier'']. London : Nelson. From [[Internet_Archive|Internet Archive]]
*{{Cite EB1911|wstitle=Cavendish, Thomas}}

{{Authority control}}

[[Category:欧洲人|Category:欧洲人]]
[[Category:探险家|Category:探险家]]
[[Category:航海家|Category:航海家]]