{{Translating|||time=2017-10-21T08:59:52+00:00}}
{{Infobox musical artist <!-- See Wikipedia:WikiProject Musicians -->
| name         = 托马斯·安德斯
| background   = 独唱歌手
| image        = 2018-06-10 ZDF Fernsehgarten Thomas Anders-9800.jpg
| caption      = 2018
| birth_name   = Bernd Weidung
| birth_date   = {{Birth date and age|1963|03|01|54|df=yes}} 
| birth_place  = [[西德|西德]][[科布伦茨|科布伦茨]]
| death_date   = 
| death_place  = 
| genre        = [[流行_(音樂類型)|流行音樂]]、[[歐陸舞曲|Eurodance]]、{{tsl|en|Europop||Europop}}、{{tsl|en|Euro disco||Euro disco}}、[[舞蹈流行音乐|舞蹈流行音乐]]、[[浩室音乐|浩室音乐]]
| occupation   = [[Singer|Singer]]-[[詞曲作家|詞曲作家]]、[[音樂製作人|音樂製作人]]
| instruments  = [[歌唱|歌唱]]、[[钢琴|钢琴]]、[[Keytar|Keytar]]、[[鍵盤樂器|鍵盤樂器]]
| years_active = 1980–present
| label        = {{tsl|en|Teldec||Teldec}}, {{tsl|en|East West Records||East West}}, [[宝丽多唱片|Polydor]], [[贝塔斯曼音乐集团|BMG]], {{tsl|en|Edel Music||Edel Records}}
| associated acts=   [[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]]
| website          = [http://www.thomas-anders.com/ www.thomas-anders.com]
}}
'''托马斯·安德斯'''（本名Bernd Weidung；{{bd|1963年|3月1日}}）是[[德国|德国]][[歌手|歌手]]、[[作曲家|作曲家]]、[[音樂製作人|音樂製作人]]。<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV">{{cite web |url=http://www.mtv.de/musikvideos_artist/8382-thomas-anders|title=MTV: Biography (Thomas Anders)|publisher=[[音樂電視網|MTV]] Germany|accessdate=2012-12-18}}</ref> 是德国流行重唱[[Modern_Talking|摩登语录]]的主唱，活动于1983–1987与1998–2003.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/>
{{transH}}
==生平==

===早年===
Anders was born in [[科布倫茨|Koblenz]], [[西德|West Germany]]. He began showing interest in music as a child, he did his first stage-performance at age of 7. Anders first studied music at Koblenz Eichendorff-Gymnasium, and then he studied musicology for five semesters at [[美茵茨大学|Johannes Gutenberg University]] in [[美茵茨|Mainz]], [[莱茵兰-普法尔茨|Rhineland-Palatinate]], Germany.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> After having performed at several clubs and discothèques, in 1979, he participated in a music contest organized by the radio station ''{{tsl|en|Radio Luxembourg (English)||Radio Luxembourg}}'' which he walked away from without earning enough points. Two days after the contest, Anders was offered a record contract by the same jury members of the radio contest.

It was then that his career officially began when in 1980, at age of 17, he released his debut single "Judy". Anders released several other singles produced by Daniel David including "Du weinst um ihn", which he performed on Michael Schanze's TV show ''Hätten sie heut' zeit für uns''. In 1983, he met {{tsl|en|Dieter Bohlen||Dieter Bohlen}} who produced "Was macht das schön",  the [[德国|German]] cover version of {{tsl|en|F. R. David||F. R. David}}'s "Pick Up the Phone" and also "Heißkalter Engel", the German cover version of {{tsl|en|Real Life (band)||Real Life}}'s "Send Me an Angel". From late 1983 to the mid of 1984 Bohlen produced other tracks for Anders including "Wovon träumst du denn", "Endstation Sehnsucht" and "Es geht mir gut heut' Nacht". The success, however, came when in late 1983, Anders and Bohlen formed the successful duo [[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]], which they started things off by a worldwide hit single "{{tsl|en|You're My Heart, You're My Soul||You're My Heart, You're My Soul}}".<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/>

===独走生涯===
In late 1987, Anders and Bohlen decided to terminate Modern Talking and go their separate ways due to constant quarrel between the two. Shortly after which Anders went on a long tour, covering cities like [[布达佩斯|Budapest]], [[卢布尔雅那|Ljubljana]], [[波茨坦|Potsdam]], [[弗罗茨瓦夫|Wrocław]], [[格但斯克|Gdańsk]],<ref name="BRAVO-TALKSHOW, July 1987">{{cite web |url=http://www.thomasanders.ru/massmedia/pressa/198707bravo_p.htm|title=BRAVO-TALKSHOW|publisher=BRAVO, July 1987}}</ref> [[香港|Hong Kong]], [[新加坡|Singapore]], [[臺北市|Taipei]], [[莫斯科|Moscow]],<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on official site">{{cite web|url=http://www.thomas-anders.com/international/thomas_anders_biography.html|title=Thomas Anders: Biography (Thomas Anders' site)|publisher=thomas-anders.com|accessdate=2011-06-25|deadurl=yes|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20110919012745/http://www.thomas-anders.com/international/thomas_anders_biography.html|archivedate=2011-09-19}}</ref> [[比尼亚德尔马|Viña del Mar]]<ref name="Chilian TV, 20 February 1988">{{cite web |url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QsaSOldcAQI|title=Youtube|publisher=Chilian TV, 20 February 1988}}</ref> and [[太陽城_(南非)|Sun City]].<ref name="South African TV, 04 April, 1988">{{cite web |url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fBCYfLNdd-c|title=Youtube|publisher=South African TV, 04 April, 1988}}</ref> Although Anders left Germany for the [[美国|United States]], in 1989, his first solo album, ''{{tsl|en|Different (Thomas Anders album)||Different}}'' was released in Germany on {{tsl|en|Teldec||Teldec Records}}. As the title of the album suggests, it was quite different from all of Modern Talking's materials. All of the songs had more pop style rather than dance like tunes. Some of the tracks on the album were produced by [[艾爾頓·約翰|Elton John]]'s producer {{tsl|en|Gus Dudgeon||Gus Dudgeon}} including the single "Love of My Own". Anders also worked with {{tsl|en|a-ha||a-ha}}'s producer {{tsl|en|Tarney-Spencer Band||Alan Tarney}}, who produced three tracks on the album. Anders did produce three of the tracks himself along with {{tsl|en|Peter Ries||Marc Cassandra}} including "You Are My Life", "One Thing" and "Close Your Eyes to Heaven". The first single "Love of My Own" released in the same year is considered the most successful single of his solo career at that time, which peaked at No.24 in Germany.<ref name="German positions"/> The album ''Different'', however, failed to enter the German album chart.

The second album ''{{tsl|en|Whispers (Thomas Anders album)||Whispers}}'' was released in 1991, three singles were released off Anders' second solo album "The Sweet Hello, the Sad Goodbye" written by [[罗克塞特|Roxette]] member {{tsl|en|Per Gessle||Per Gessle}}, "I Can't Give You Anything (But My Love)" and "True Love". In 1992, Anders released his third album ''{{tsl|en|Down on Sunset||Down on Sunset}}'', the singles "How Deep Is Your Love" and "Standing Alone" (Duet with [[格兰·梅德罗斯|Glenn Medeiros]]) found some success both in [[德国|Germany]] and [[奥地利|Austria]]. Anders released his fourth solo album ''{{tsl|en|When Will I See You Again (Thomas Anders album)||When Will I See You Again}}'' in 1993. The first single "When Will I See You Again" featured the original singers of the song, [[第三度空間|The Three Degrees]]. Also, in 1993, Anders experienced something new as he got a part in a [[瑞典|Swedish]] movie ''{{tsl|en|Stockholm Marathon (film)||Stockholm Marathon}}''.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> He also co-wrote with {{tsl|en|Ralf Stemmann||Ralf Stemmann}}  the title-song for that film "Marathon of Life", which is one of the tracks in his 1993's album ''When Will I See You Again''. In 1994, he came back with an album ''{{tsl|en|Barcos de Cristal||Barcos de Cristal}}'', which he released in [[西班牙语|Spanish]] only for U.S., South America and Argentina,<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> this album contained songs from albums of 1992 and 1993, all redone in Spanish. Anders released one more album in 1995 called ''{{tsl|en|Souled||Souled}}'', which he produced together with {{tsl|en|Peter Wolf (producer)||Peter Wolf}}, this album contained a duet featuring {{tsl|en|The Pointer Sisters||The Pointer Sisters}} "Feel for the Physical". Things for him then were quiet until March 1998 when Thomas Anders and Dieter Bohlen announced the reunion of Modern Talking.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> The duo released six studio albums between 1998 and 2003 and split again in 2003.

===后续岁月===
In 2001, Anders produced the song, "My Heart It Feels Like (Dub Dub ...)" together with Gerd Count Bernadotte for the pop girl duo ''It-Girl''.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> In late 2003 Anders signed a contract with [[贝塔斯曼音乐集团|BMG]] international as a solo artist after their final album of Modern Talking. The first single, "Independent Girl" released in November 2003 reached No.17 on the German single chart and No.5 in Russia.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/><ref name="German positions"/> His album, ''{{tsl|en|This Time (Thomas Anders album)||This Time}}'' released in 2004 entered the top-20 as well.<ref name="German positions"/> The second single "King of Love" reached the top-40 in Germany.<ref name="German positions"/> At this point, Anders was working with his producer {{tsl|en|Peter Ries||Peter Ries}}, who previously had worked with such artists as {{tsl|en|Sandra (singer)||Sandra}} and {{tsl|en|No Angels||No Angels}}.

Thomas Anders received an offer from NDR to host the [[2004年歐洲歌唱大賽|Eurovision Song Contest 2004]], 11 million viewers who already knew Anders as a singer watched him announce the German voting points.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> Also, in 2004, Anders was asked to record the ballad "Just Dream" which was to be the official anthem for the ballet {{tsl|en|Holiday on Ice||Holiday on Ice}} which reached No.64 in Germany.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> The song can be heard during the international three-year {{tsl|en|Holiday on Ice||Holiday on Ice}} tour.

In the following year, Anders was involved in a legal battle which he had brought against his Modern Talking partner, Dieter Bohlen.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> Anders claimed that Bohlen had slandered about him in his autobiographical book.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> In the Spring of 2005, the court rejected to have Bohlen pay the one million Euros which Anders had sued Bohlen for.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/>

In March 2006, Anders got involved in [[歐洲歌唱大賽|Eurovision Song Contest]] again; however, he was one of the three contestants to represent [[德国|Germany]] in the [[2006年歐洲歌唱大賽|Eurovision Song Contest 2006]] alongside the Greek-born {{tsl|en|Vicky Leandros||Vicky Leandros}} ({{tsl|en|Eurovision Song Contest 1972||Eurovision Song Contest 1972}} winner) and [[乡村音乐|country]] band {{tsl|en|Texas Lightning||Texas Lightning}} featuring comedian Olli Dittrich.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> However, the spectators chose the latter.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/>

Also in the same year, Anders left BMG and joined {{tsl|en|Edel Music||Edel Records}} and released his swing-album ''{{tsl|en|Songs Forever||Songs Forever}}'' which was peaking only at No.43.<ref name="German positions"/> In April 2006, his ''The DVD-Collection'' arrived in stores, which contained 20 videos of his solo career as well as some hits taken from [[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]] period. In July 2008, Anders was featured on two of download singles by Sound-Chateau, "Ibiza Baba Baya" and "For You".<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.thomasanders-online.com/Ibiza_Press_english.htm |title=Ibiza: The Summer Hit of Balearic Island |publisher=thomasanders-online.com |accessdate=2011-06-22 |deadurl=yes |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20110717051244/http://www.thomasanders-online.com/Ibiza_Press_english.htm |archivedate=2011-07-17 |df= }}</ref>
 
Anders announced the German Eurovision voting results once again in 2009. In the Spring of 2009, Anders was featured on the song called "{{tsl|en|The Night Is Still Young (Sandra featuring Thomas Anders song)||The Night Is Still Young}} for which he collaborated with {{tsl|en|Sandra (singer)||Sandra}}, the single peaked at No.46.<ref name="German positions"/> Anders released his next solo single, "Why Do You Cry" in 2010 which peaked at No. 21 on Russian Airplay Chart.<ref name="Airplay Detection Top Hit 100 Weekly: 08/03/2010-14/03/2010">{{cite web |url=http://www.tophitru.com/airplay_week.shtml?week_st=1268082000|title=Airplay Detection Top Hit 100 Weekly: 08/03/2010-14/03/2010|publisher=tophit.ru|accessdate=2010-03-26}}</ref> In the Spring of 2010, Anders released his next studio album, ''{{tsl|en|Strong (Thomas Anders album)||Strong}}'' for Russian and CIS market.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> The album reached the platinum status in Russia for sales of 650,000 units,<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/><ref>{{cite web |url=http://de.rian.ru/culture/20120318/263093636.html|title=RIAN: Thomas Anders gets awarded|publisher= RIAN Germany|language=de|accessdate=2013-01-15}}</ref> making him the best-selling international artist in Russia that year.

In 2011, Anders came back collaborating with {{tsl|en|Uwe Fahrenkrog-Petersen||Uwe Fahrenkrog}}, best known for his success with "{{tsl|en|99 Luftballons||99 Red Balloons}}" with his band {{tsl|en|Nena (band)||Nena}} in the 1980s. The duo's first single "Gigolo" was released on May 27, 2011 in Germany and peaked at No. 40 there.<ref name="German positions for Anders & Fahrenkrog"/> "Gigolo" was written and produced by Fahrenkrog-Petersen and {{tsl|en|Thomas Troelsen||Thomas Troelsen}}. Their second single, "No More Tears on the Dancefloor", written by {{tsl|en|Darren Hayes||Darren Hayes}}, failed to enter the charts. Their album ''Two'', released on June 10, 2011, debuted at No. 11 on the German album charts.<ref name="German positions for Anders & Fahrenkrog"/>

In November 2012, Anders released a new solo album called ''Christmas for You''. It includes seasonal hits such as "I'll Be Home for Christmas" and "It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year" as well as covers of well-known classics such as "[[平安夜_(歌曲)|Silent Night]]" and [[威猛樂隊|Wham!]]'s "[[Last_Christmas_(歌曲)|Last Christmas]]".

On August 9, 2013, Anders in collaboration with Persian singer Omid Soltani released the song "We Are One".<ref name="Making of We Are One">{{cite web |url=http://www.radiojavan.com/videos/video/omid-thomas-anders-modern-talking-we-are-one-%28making-of%29|title=Making of We Are One|language=Persian, English|accessdate=2013-07-19}}</ref>

On May 19, 2016, Anders released a new song titled "Lunatic".<ref name="Lunatic">{{cite web |url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3QZW_d9VK_0|title=Thomas Anders - Lunatic (From the album History)|accessdate=2015-05-25}}</ref> He also announced an upcoming album, ''History'' to be released on May 27, 2016, including the songs "Lunatic" and "Take the Chance".<ref name="History">{{cite web |url=https://www.facebook.com/thomasandersofficial/photos/a.128822207166017.21604.120458588002379/1047777911937104/?type=3&theater|title=Facebook Announcement of new album "History"|accessdate=2015-05-25}}</ref>

==个人生活==
Anders' parents are Helga and Peter Weidung. He has one brother, Achim, and one sister, Tania. He was married to {{tsl|en|Nora Balling||Nora Balling}} from 1984<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.talkingforever.com/thomasanders/thomasbiografia.htm |title=Biografía de Thomas Anders |work=talkingforever.com |accessdate=September 27, 2010 |deadurl=yes |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20110504145838/http://www.talkingforever.com/thomasanders/thomasbiografia.htm |archivedate=2011年5月4日 }}</ref> to 1999.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/> Since July 2000, he has been married to Claudia Hess, with whom he has a son, Alexander Mick, born 27 June 2002.<ref name="Thomas Anders' Biography on German MTV"/>

==唱片目录==

===录音室专辑===
{| class="wikitable plainrowheaders" style="text-align:center;" border="1"
|+
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:10em;"| Title
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:16em;"| Album details
! scope="col" colspan="1"| Peak chart positions
|-
! scope="col" style="width:3em;font-size:90%;"| [[GfK娱乐榜单|GER]]<br/><ref name="German positions">{{cite web|url=https://www.offiziellecharts.de/suche?artistId=Thomas%20Anders|title=Charts.de: Thomas Anders|publisher=offiziellecharts.de|work=GfK Entertainment|language=de|accessdate=2015-09-05}}</ref>
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Different (Thomas Anders album)||Different}}''
|
* Released: August 29, 1989-1990
* Label: {{tsl|en|East West Records||Eastwest Germany}}  ([[華納音樂集團|Warner Germany]])
* Formats: [[CD|CD]], [[卡式录音带|Cassette]], [[密紋唱片|LP]],
| —
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Whispers (Thomas Anders album)||Whispers}}''
|
* Released: May 17, 1991-1992
* Label: Eastwest Germany  (Warner Germany)
* Formats: CD, Cassette, LP
| — 
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Down on Sunset||Down on Sunset}}''
|
* Released: September 1, 1992-1993
* Label: [[宝丽多唱片|Polydor Germany]]  ([[环球唱片|Universal Germany]])
* Formats: [[CD|CD]], [[卡式录音带|Cassette]], [[密紋唱片|LP]],
| —
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|When Will I See You Again (Thomas Anders album)||When Will I See You Again}}''
|
* Released: September 20, 1993-1994
* Label: Polydor Germany  Universal Germany
* Formats: [[CD|CD]], [[卡式录音带|Cassette]], [[密紋唱片|LP]],
| —
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Barcos de Cristal||Barcos de Cristal}}''
|
* Released: April 19, 1994-1995
* Label: PolyGram records
* Formats: CD, Cassette, LP
| — 
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Souled||Souled}}''
|
* Released: April 7, 1995-1996
* Label: Polydor Germany  (Universal Germany)
* Formats: CD, Cassette, LP
| —
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|This Time (Thomas Anders album)||This Time}}''
|
* Released: February 23, 2004-2005
* Label: Na Klar ([[索尼音樂娛樂|Sony Music Germany]])
* Formats: CD, Cassette
| 14
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Songs Forever||Songs Forever}}''
|
* Released: March 3, 2006-2007
* Label: {{tsl|en|Edel AG||Edel}}
* Formats: CD
| 43
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Strong (Thomas Anders album)||Strong}}''
|
* Released: April, 2010-2011
* Label: CD Land
* Formats: CD
| —
|-
! scope="row"| ''History''
|
* Released: May 27, 2015-2016
* Label: White Shell Music (H'ART)   
* Formats: CD, iTunes, MP3, Vinyl
| 42
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Pures Leben||Pures Leben}}''
|
* Released: April 7, 2017
* Label: Warner Music (Germany)
* Formats: CD, Vinyl
| 14
|-
| align="center" colspan="14" style="font-size:90%"| "—" denotes items that did not chart or were not released.
|}

===Compilation albums===
{| class="wikitable plainrowheaders" style="text-align:center;" border="1"
|+
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:10em;"| Title
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:16em;"| Album details
! scope="col" colspan="1"| Peak chart positions
|-
! scope="col" style="width:3em;font-size:90%;"| [[GfK娱乐榜单|GER]]<br/><ref name="German positions"/>
|-
! scope="row"| ''For Your Love''
|
* Released: 1992
* Label: Convoy
* Formats: [[CD|CD]], [[卡式录音带|Cassette]], [[密紋唱片|LP]],
| —
|-
! scope="row"| ''Golden Stars''
|
* Released: 1998
* Label: [[宝丽多唱片|Polydor Germany]] ([[环球唱片|Universal Germany]])
* Formats: CD, Cassette, LP
| — 
|-
| align="center" colspan="14" style="font-size:90%"| "—" denotes items that did not chart or were not released.
|}

===Holiday albums===
{| class="wikitable plainrowheaders" style="text-align:center;" border="1"
|+
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:10em;"| Title
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:16em;"| Album details
! scope="col" colspan="1"| Peak chart positions
|-
! scope="col" style="width:3em;font-size:90%;"| [[GfK娱乐榜单|GER]]<br/><ref name="German positions"/>
|-
! scope="row"| ''Christmas for You''
|
* Released: November 16, 2012
* Label: Electrola (EMI)
* Formats: CD, [[數位音樂下載|Digital download]]
| 99
|}

===现场专辑===
{| class="wikitable plainrowheaders" style="text-align:center;" border="1"
|+
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:15em;"| Title
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:16em;"| Album details
! scope="col" colspan="1"| Peak chart positions
|-
! scope="col" style="width:3em;font-size:90%;"| [[GfK娱乐榜单|GER]]<br/><ref name="German positions"/>
|-
! scope="row"| ''{{tsl|en|Live Concert (album)||Live Concert}}''<br /><small>Thomas Anders & Jazzband</small>
|
* Released: 1997
* Label: Panteon Records
* Formats: [[CD|CD]], [[卡式录音带|Cassette]], [[密紋唱片|LP]],
| —
|-
| align="center" colspan="14" style="font-size:90%"| "—" denotes items that did not chart or were not released.
|}

===合作作品===
{| class="wikitable plainrowheaders" style="text-align:center;" border="1"
|+
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:15em;"| Title
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:16em;"| Album details
! scope="col" colspan="3"| Peak chart positions
|-
! scope="col" style="width:3em;font-size:90%;"| [[GfK娱乐榜单|GER]]<br/><ref name="German positions for Anders & Fahrenkrog">{{cite web|url=https://www.offiziellecharts.de/suche?artistId=Fahrenkrog|title=Charts.de: Anders & Fahrenkrog|publisher=offiziellecharts.de|work=GfK Entertainment|language=de|accessdate=2015-09-05}}</ref>

! scope="col" style="width:3em;font-size:90%;"| [[奧地利Ö3四十強音樂榜|AUT]]<br/><ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.austriancharts.at/search.asp?cat=a&artist=Anders+&artist_search=starts&title=&title_search=starts|title=Artist: Anders (Albums)|publisher=Hung Medien|work=Ö3 Austria Top-40|language=de|accessdate=2013-07-19}}</ref>

! scope="col" style="width:3em;font-size:90%;"| [[瑞士热门音乐榜|SWI]]<br/><ref name="Swiss album positions for Anders & Fahrenkrog">{{cite web|url=http://www.swisscharts.com/search.asp?cat=a&artist=Anders&artist_search=starts&title=&title_search=starts|title=Artist: Anders |publisher=Schweizer Hitparade: Hung Medien |work=Schweizer Hitparade|language=de|accessdate=2013-07-19}}</ref>
|-
! scope="row"| ''Two''<br /><br /><span style="font-size:85%;">Thomas Anders | {{tsl|en|Uwe Fahrenkrog-Petersen||Fahrenkrog}}</span>
|
* Released: June 10, 2011
* Label: [[宝丽多唱片|Polydor Germany]] ([[环球唱片|Universal Germany]])
* Formats: [[CD|CD]], [[數位音樂下載|digital download]]
| 11 || 71 || 85
|-
| align="center" colspan="14" style="font-size:90%"| "—" denotes items that did not chart or were not released.
|}

==单曲列表==

===作为领唱===
{| class="wikitable plainrowheaders" style="text-align:center;"
|-
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:16em;"| Title
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:2em;"| Year
! scope="col" colspan="1"| Peak chart positions
! scope="col" rowspan="2"| Album
|-
! style="width:3em;font-size:85%"| [[GfK娱乐榜单|GER]]<br/><ref name="German positions"/>
|-
! scope="row"| "{{tsl|en|Judy (Thomas Anders song)||Judy}}"
| rowspan="2"| 1980
| —
| rowspan="9"| ''Non-album singles''
|-
! scope="row"| "{{tsl|en|Du weinst um ihn||Du weinst um ihn}}"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "{{tsl|en|Es war die Nacht der ersten Liebe||Es war die Nacht der ersten Liebe}}"
| 1981
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "{{tsl|en|Ich will nicht dein Leben||Ich will nicht dein Leben}}"
| 1982
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Was macht das schon"
| rowspan="3"| 1983
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Wovon träumst du denn"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Heißkalter Engel"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Endstation Sehnsucht"
| rowspan="2"| 1984
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Es geht mir gut heut' Nacht"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Love of My Own"
| rowspan="3"| 1989
| 24
| rowspan="3"| ''{{tsl|en|Different (Thomas Anders album)||Different}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "One Thing"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Soldier"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "The Sweet Hello, The Sad Goodbye"
| rowspan="3"| 1991
| —
| rowspan="3"| ''{{tsl|en|Whispers (Thomas Anders album)||Whispers}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "Can't Give You Anything (But My Love)"
| 73
|-
! scope="row"| "True Love"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "How Deep Is Your Love"
| rowspan="2"| 1992
| 71
| rowspan="2"| ''{{tsl|en|Down on Sunset||Down on Sunset}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "Standing Alone"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">(featuring [[格兰·梅德罗斯|Glenn Medeiros]])</span> 
| 72
|-
! scope="row"| "When Will I See You Again"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">(featuring [[第三度空間|The Three Degrees]])</span> 
| rowspan="2"| 1993
| 37
| rowspan="3"| ''{{tsl|en|When Will I See You Again (Thomas Anders album)||When Will I See You Again}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "I'll Love You Forever"
| 79
|-
! scope="row"| "The Love in Me"
| rowspan="2"| 1994
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Road to Higher Love"
| —
| rowspan="3"| ''{{tsl|en|Souled||Souled}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "Never Knew Love Like This Before"
| rowspan="2"| 1995
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "A Little Bit of Lovin"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Independent Girl"
| 2003
| 17
| rowspan="3"| ''{{tsl|en|This Time (Thomas Anders album)||This Time}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "King of Love"
| rowspan="3"| 2004
| 37
|-
! scope="row"| "Tonight Is the Night"
| 60
|-
! scope="row"| "Just Dream!"
| 64
| ''Holiday on Ice Dream Tour 2004/2005''
|-
! scope="row"| "A Very Special Feeling"
| rowspan="3"| 2006
| —
| ''Non-album single''
|-
! scope="row"| "Songs That Live Forever"
| —
| rowspan="2"| ''{{tsl|en|Songs Forever||Songs Forever}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "All Around the World"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Kisses for Christmas"
| 2008
| —
| ''Christmas for You''
|-
! scope="row"| "Why Do You Cry"
| rowspan="3"| 2010
| —
| rowspan="2"| ''{{tsl|en|Strong (Thomas Anders album)||Strong}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "Stay With Me"
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "The Christmas Song"
| —
| ''Christmas for You''
|-
! scope="row"| "Everybody Wants To Rule The World"
| 2014
| —
| ''Non-album single''
|-
! scope="row"| "Take a Chance"
| 2015
| —
| rowspan="2"| ''History''
|-
! scope="row"| "Lunatic"
| rowspan="2"| 2016
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "Love is in the Air"
| —
| ''Non-album single''
|-
! scope="row"| "Der Beste Tag Meines Lebens"
| 2017
| —
| ''Pures Leben''
|-
| colspan="14" style="font-size:90%"| "—" denotes a title that did not chart, or was not released in that territory.
|}

===作为主唱===
{| class="wikitable plainrowheaders" style="text-align:center;"
|-
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:16em;"| Title
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:2em;"| Year
! scope="col" colspan="1"| Peak chart positions
! scope="col" rowspan="2"| Album
|-
! style="width:3em;font-size:85%"| [[GfK娱乐榜单|GER]]<br/><ref name="German positions"/>
|-
! scope="row"| "Ibiza Baba Baya"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">Sound-Chateau (featuring Thomas Anders)</span>
| rowspan="2"| 2008
| —
| rowspan="2"| ''Non-album singles''
|-
! scope="row"| "For You"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">Sound-Chateau (featuring Thomas Anders)</span>
| —
|-
! scope="row"| "{{tsl|en|The Night Is Still Young (Sandra featuring Thomas Anders song)||The Night Is Still Young}}"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">{{tsl|en|Sandra (singer)||Sandra}} (featuring Thomas Anders)</span> 
| 2009
| 46
| ''{{tsl|en|Back to Life (Sandra album)||Back to Life}}''
|-
! scope="row"| "We Are One"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">Omid (featuring Thomas Anders)</span> 
| 2013
| —
| ''Non-album single
|-
| colspan="14" style="font-size:90%"| "—" denotes a title that did not chart, or was not released in that territory.
|}

===合作独唱===
{| class="wikitable plainrowheaders" style="text-align:center;"
|-
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:16em;"| Title
! scope="col" rowspan="2" style="width:2em;"| Year
! scope="col" colspan="1"| Peak chart positions
! scope="col" rowspan="2"| Album
|-
! style="width:3em;font-size:85%"| [[GfK娱乐榜单|GER]]<br/><ref name="German positions for Anders & Fahrenkrog"/>
|-
! scope="row"| "Ziele"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">{{tsl|en|Sistanova||Sistanova}} and Thomas Anders </span>
| 2008
| —
| ''HelleWecks Soundtrack''
|-
! scope="row"| "Gigolo"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">Anders | {{tsl|en|Uwe Fahrenkrog-Petersen||Fahrenkrog}}</span>
| rowspan="2"| 2011
| 40
| rowspan="2"| ''Two''
|-
! scope="row"| "No More Tears On The Dancefloor"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;">Anders | {{tsl|en|Uwe Fahrenkrog-Petersen||Fahrenkrog}}</span>
| —
|-
| colspan="14" style="font-size:90%"| "—" denotes a title that did not chart, or was not released in that territory.
|}

==视频==

===视频作品目录===
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center;"
! Year
! width="230"| Album details
! Notes
|-
| 2006
| align=left| ''The DVD-Collection''
* Released: April 28, 2006
* Label: {{tsl|en|Edel AG||Edel}}
* Formats: HiFi Sound, PAL
|
* Contains the music videos from Thomas Anders' solo albums as well as three singles from Modern Talking
|}
{{transF}}
===合作作曲===
* 1988 "I Can Never Let You Go" (Co-wrote for [[英格伯·漢普汀克|Engelbert Humperdinck]])
* 1989 "Soldier" (Written and produced by {{tsl|en|Tarney-Spencer Band||Alan Tarney}})
* 1991 "The Sweet Hello, The Sad Goodbye" (Written by {{tsl|en|Per Gessle||Per Gessle}})
* 1992 "Standing Alone" (Duet with [[格兰·梅德罗斯|Glenn Medeiros]])
* 1993 "When Will I See You Again" (Duet with [[第三度空間|The Three Degrees]])
* 1993 "Emotional Thing" (Co-wrote for [[第三度空間|The Three Degrees]])
* 1993 "Question of Love" (Co-wrote for [[第三度空間|The Three Degrees]])
* 1993 "Ain't No Woman" (Co-wrote for [[第三度空間|The Three Degrees]])
* 1994 "Tal Vez" (Co-wrote for {{tsl|en|Marta Sánchez||Marta Sánchez}}) (#1 Mexico)
* 1995 "Feel for the Physical" (Duet with {{tsl|en|The Pointer Sisters||The Pointer Sisters}})
* 2001 "Hey Mr. President" (Produced {{tsl|en|Mr. President (band)||T-Seven}})
* 2001 "Cry for You" (Co-wrote for {{tsl|en|No Angels||No Angels}})
* 2002 "Stay" (Co-wrote for {{tsl|en|No Angels||No Angels}})
* 2002 "Funky Dance" (Co-wrote for {{tsl|en|No Angels||No Angels}})

==参见==
* [[Modern_Talking|Modern Talking]]
* {{tsl|en|Nora Balling||Nora Balling}}

==参考文献==
{{Reflist|2}}

==外部链接==
* [http://www.thomas-anders.com/ Official Website]
* {{IMDb name|0026053}}
* http://www.thomasanders.ru - More than Talking - Tribute to Thomas Anders, a lot of information about the artist (English/Russian).
* {{discogs artist}}

{{Thomas Anders}}
{{Modern Talking}}

{{Authority control}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Anders, Thomas}}
[[Category:1963年出生|Category:1963年出生]]
[[Category:在世人物|Category:在世人物]]
[[Category:English-language_singers_of_Germany|Category:English-language singers of Germany]]
[[Category:Eurodance_musicians|Category:Eurodance musicians]]
[[Category:德国男歌手|Category:德国男歌手]]
[[Category:German_pop_singers|Category:German pop singers]]
[[Category:德国音乐制作人|Category:德国音乐制作人]]
[[Category:German_songwriters|Category:German songwriters]]
[[Category:Modern_Talking|Category:Modern Talking]]
[[Category:People_from_Koblenz|Category:People from Koblenz]]
[[Category:Spanish-language_singers_of_Germany|Category:Spanish-language singers of Germany]]