{{Translating|[[:en:Irwin_Edman|:en:Irwin Edman]]|time=2019-03-19}}
'''欧文·埃德曼'''（{{lang-en|Irwin Edman}}，{{bd|1896年|11月28日|1954年|9月4日}}）是[[美国|美国]][[哲學家|哲学家]]、哲学[[教授|教授]]。

==生平==
{{transH}}
Irwin Edman was born in [[New_York_City|New York City]] to [[Jewish|Jewish]] parents.  He grew up in the Morningside Heights neighborhood of Manhattan, adjacent to Columbia University, with which he was to be affiliated his entire adult life.  Edman spent his high-school years at [[Townsend_Harris_High_School|Townsend Harris Hall]], a New York high school for superior pupils.  He then attended [[Columbia_University|Columbia University]], where he graduated [[Phi_Beta_Kappa|Phi Beta Kappa]] and earned his bachelor's degree in 1917, and his Ph.D. in 1920.  During his student years at Columbia he was a member of the [[Boar's_Head_Society|Boar's Head Society]].<ref name=chaddock>
{{cite book
 | first = K
 | last = Chaddock
 | title = The Multi-Talented Mr.Erskine: Shaping Mass Culture through Great Books and Fine Music
 | publisher = Springer
 | page =
 | url = https://books.google.com/books?id=ncFfAQAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=%22whittaker+chambers%22+%22boar%27s+head%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjO_IS0u6rLAhWDTCYKHSMOC5oQ6AEIOzAE#v=onepage&q=boar%27s&f=false
 | date = 2012
 | accessdate = 6 March 2016}}</ref> He became a professor of philosophy at Columbia, and during the course of his career he rose to serve as head of the philosophy department.  He also served as a visiting lecturer at [[Oxford_University|Oxford University]], [[Amherst_College|Amherst College]], the [[University_of_California,_Berkeley|University of California]], and [[Harvard|Harvard]] and [[Wesleyan_University|Wesleyan]] Universities.  In 1945 the [[United_States_Department_of_State|United States Department of State]] and the Brazilian government sponsored a series of lectures he gave in [[Rio_de_Janeiro|Rio de Janeiro]].

Edman was known for the “charm and clarity” of his writing, and for being an open-minded critic.  He was a popular professor and served as a mentor to undergraduate students, notably Pulitzer Prize-winning author [[Herman_Wouk|Herman Wouk]] (Columbia class of 1934), who dedicated his first novel to Edman.

He was the brother-in-law of [[Lester_Markel|Lester Markel]], the longtime Sunday editor of The New York Times.

In addition to writing philosophical works, Irwin Edman was a frequent contributor to literary magazines such as [[The_New_Yorker|The New Yorker]], the [[Atlantic_Monthly|Atlantic Monthly]], the [[New_York_Times_Magazine|New York Times Magazine]], [[Harper's_Weekly|Harper's]], [[Commentary_(magazine)|Commentary]], and [[Horizon_(magazine)|Horizon]].

In 1953, Professor Edman was elected vice president of the [[National_Institute_of_Arts_and_Letters|National Institute of Arts and Letters]].

Irwin Edman published many books on philosophy as well as poetry and some fiction.  Some of his works include “Philosopher’s Holiday,” “Richard Kane Looks at Life,”  “Four Ways of Philosophy,” "Philosopher's Quest," and “Arts and the Man – An Introduction to Aesthetics.”

He died, of a heart attack, on September 4, 1954, in New York.<ref>The New York Times, 5 September 1954, page 51</ref>
{{transF}}

== 著作 ==
*Arthur Schopenhauer: The World As Will And Idea 
*Arts and the man: a short introduction to aesthetics (1939)
*Candle in the Dark : A Postscript to Despair by Edman, Irwin 
*Don Quixote: The Ingenious Man of La Mancha (Introduction)
*Ecclesiastes, with an Essay by Irwin Edman ; Odyssey Press, New York, 1946 
*Emerson's Essays, First & Second Series Complete in One Volume 
*Epictetus. Discourses and Enchiridion. Based on the Translation of Thomas… 
*''Fountainheads of Freedom: The Growth of the Democratic Idea,'' with Herbert W. Schneider
*Human Traits and Their Social Significance 
*John Dewey: his contribution to the American tradition (as editor)
*Landmarks for beginners in philosophy 
*Marcus Aurelius and His Times, The Transition from Paganism to… 
*Philosopher's Holiday (1938)
*Philosopher's Quest (1947)
*Poems
*The Mind Of Paul 
*The Philosophy of Plato. Jowett Translation 
*The Philosophy of Santayana 
*The Philosophy of Schopenhauer (1928)
*The Uses of Philosophy
*The Works of Plato 
*The World, the Arts and the Artist 
*Under Whatever Sky (1951)

=== 诗 ===
* "Brief Introduction to the Problems of Philosophy" ''[[紐約客|The New Yorker]]'' 25/50 (4 February 1950) : 32

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部链接 ==
* {{Gutenberg author|id=Edman,+Irwin|name=Irwin Edman}}
* {{Internet Archive author}}
* [http://c250.columbia.edu/c250_celebrates/remarkable_columbians/irwin_edman.html 哥伦比亚大学网站上的“向欧文·埃德曼致敬]”
* [[wikisource:The_Philosophy_Of_Schopenhauer|埃德曼对叔本华主要著作的介绍]]

{{normdaten}}
{{DEFAULTSORT: Edman, Irwin}}
[[Category:美國猶太人|Category:美國猶太人]]
[[Category:哥倫比亞大學校友|Category:哥倫比亞大學校友]]
[[Category:哥倫比亞大學教師|Category:哥倫比亞大學教師]]
[[Category:卫斯理大学教师|Category:卫斯理大学教师]]
[[Category:美国哲学家|Category:美国哲学家]]