{{自权个别教会}}

'''拉丁禮教會'''（{{lang-en|'''Latin Church'''}}）或稱'''西方教會'''，是[[天主教會|天主教會]]內最大的[[個別教會|個別教會]]。它不是在個別教會中的[[個別教會|地方個別教會]]層面內，即[[教區|教區]]或東方禮教區。而是在自治個別教會層面內。另外有22個東方禮自治教會組成[[東儀天主教會|東儀天主教會]]。

== 歷史 ==
'''拉丁禮教會'''最初發展是在[[羅馬帝國|羅馬帝國]]行省[[阿非利加_(羅馬行省)|阿非利加]]（即現今的[[突尼西亞|突尼西亞]]北部及[[利比亞|利比亞]]西部）。<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://books.google.nl/books?id=_YhkqmfNeIIC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Isidore+of+Seville:+%22De+Ecclesiasticis+Officiis%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NB2FUZPeCuWf0QXlmoDgBg&ved=0CC4Q6AEwAA |title=Isidore of Seville (p. 17) |access-date=2014-03-18 |archive-date=2014-12-25 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20141225172656/http://books.google.nl/books?id=_YhkqmfNeIIC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Isidore+of+Seville:+%22De+Ecclesiasticis+Officiis%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NB2FUZPeCuWf0QXlmoDgBg&ved=0CC4Q6AEwAA |dead-url=no }}</ref>在這之後，教會漸漸傅到羅馬帝國中的[[西羅馬帝國|西羅馬帝國]]。

自[[西羅馬帝國|西羅馬帝國]]起，從[[古典時代|古典時代]]至[[文藝復興|文藝復興]]時期，'''拉丁禮教會'''使用的教會語言：[[拉丁語|拉丁語]]成為了教育和文化的主要語言。在該領域發展出各種拉丁禮拜儀式。

==術語==
===教會及禮儀===
在1990年定立的《[[東儀天主教會法典|東儀天主教會法典]]》中，“教會”和“禮儀”有以下意思：
:'''教會'''：A group of Christian faithful united by a hierarchy according to the norm of law which the supreme authority of the Church expressly or tacitly recognizes as sui iuris is called in this Code a Church ''sui iuris''.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/john_paul_ii/apost_constitutions/documents/hf_jp-ii_apc_19901018_codex-can-eccl-orient-1_lt.html#CANONES_PRAELIMINARES |title=CCEO, canon 27 |accessdate=2014-03-18 |archive-date=2011-06-04 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110604154301/http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/john_paul_ii/apost_constitutions/documents/hf_jp-ii_apc_19901018_codex-can-eccl-orient-1_lt.html#CANONES_PRAELIMINARES |dead-url=no }}</ref>
:'''禮儀'''：A rite is the liturgical, theological, spiritual and disciplinary patrimony, culture and circumstances of history of a distinct people, by which its own manner of living the faith is manifested in each Church sui iuris.<ref>CCEO, canon 28 §1</ref>

=== 拉丁禮天主教和羅馬天主教 ===
有時，[[聖座|聖座]]也使用術語“羅馬天主教”來指整個天主教會是在與[[羅馬主教|羅馬主教]]及的共融之中<ref>"The terms 'Roman Church' and 'Roman Catholic Church' date from at least the early [[Middle_Ages|Middle Ages]], but the stress on these terms became prominent after the [[Protestant_Reformation|Protestant Reformation]]. The reason was to emphasize the distinctive quality of being not only a Christian, because baptized, but of being a Catholic, because in communion with the Pope " ([http://www.catholicreference.net/index.cfm?id=36128 {{Wayback|url=http://www.catholicreference.net/index.cfm?id=36128 |date=20210313064755 }} John Hardon, ''Modern Catholic Dictionary'').</ref><ref>[[Pope_Pius_XII|Pope Pius XII]] taught in ''[[Humani_Generis|Humani Generis]]'' that "the Mystical Body of Christ and the Roman Catholic Church are one and the same thing" ([http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/pius_xii/encyclicals/documents/hf_p-xii_enc_12081950_humani-generis_en.html Encyclical ''Humani Generis''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/pius_xii/encyclicals/documents/hf_p-xii_enc_12081950_humani-generis_en.html |date=20141202041614 }}, 27).] [[Pope_Benedict_XVI|Pope Benedict XVI]] called the Church "the Roman Catholic Church" at a meeting in [[Warsaw|Warsaw]] on [http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/benedict_xvi/speeches/2006/may/documents/hf_ben-xvi_spe_20060525_incontro-ecumenico_en.html 25 May 2006] {{Wayback|url=http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/benedict_xvi/speeches/2006/may/documents/hf_ben-xvi_spe_20060525_incontro-ecumenico_en.html |date=20131103094252 }} and in joint declarations that he signed with the [[Archbishop_of_Canterbury|Archbishop of Canterbury]], [[Rowan_Williams|Rowan Williams]], on [http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/benedict_xvi/speeches/2006/november/documents/hf_ben-xvi_spe_20061123_common-decl_en.html 23 November 2006] {{Wayback|url=http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/benedict_xvi/speeches/2006/november/documents/hf_ben-xvi_spe_20061123_common-decl_en.html |date=20130302070228 }} and with [[Patriarch_Bartholomew_I|Patriarch Bartholomew I]] of Constantinople on [http://www.ewtn.com/library/PAPALDOC/b16bart1decl.htm 30 November 2006.] {{Wayback|url=http://www.ewtn.com/library/PAPALDOC/b16bart1decl.htm |date=20110430072019 }}</ref>。但是，聖座從來沒有使用“羅馬天主教”這術語，來專指拉丁禮教會。聖座相當普遍使用的術語“羅馬”是指[[天主教羅馬教區|羅馬教區]]。

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部連結 ==
* [http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/09022a.htm Catholic Encyclopedia: Latin Church] {{Wayback|url=http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/09022a.htm |date=20210126065621 }}

== 参见 ==
{{Portal box|基督教|天主教}}
* [[天主教会|天主教会]]
** [[個別教會|個別教會]]
** [[東儀天主教會|東儀天主教會]]
* [[天主教禮儀|天主教禮儀]]
* [[西方基督教|西方基督教]]

{{-}}
{{天主教}}
{{天主教会史}}

[[Category:天主教礼拜仪式礼仪|Latin]]
[[Category:天主教組織|Category:天主教組織]]
[[Category:天主教术语|Category:天主教术语]]
[[Category:西方基督教|Category:西方基督教]]