'''雅各布·赫德·史密斯'''（{{lang-en|'''Jacob Hurd Smith'''}}，{{bd|1840年|1月29日|1918年|3月1日|catIdx=J}}），是[[美国|美国]]陆军将军，因为[[美菲战争|美菲战争]]中对[[萨马岛|萨马岛]]的报复屠戮而臭名昭著，后来受到军事法庭的审判，于1902年确定罪行，结束自己在美国军队中的职业生涯。<ref>[https://sciotohistorical.org/items/show/109 General Jacob H. Smith & the Philippine War’s Samar Campaign]</ref><ref>[http://www.arlingtoncemetery.net/jhsmith.htm Jacob Hurd Smith, Brigadier General, United States Army]</ref><ref>[https://www.esquiremag.ph/long-reads/features/jacob-h-smith-philippine-american-war-a1926-20190919-lfrm The True Story of Jacob Smith, the 'Monster' of the Philippine-American War]</ref>為了報復巴蘭吉加戰役的死傷，史密斯下令殺死所有在萨马岛、十歲以上的菲律賓男人。<ref name="smith">[[Jacob_H._Smith#Miller1982|Miller]] p. 220; [https://www.pbs.org/crucible/Transcript.txt PBS documentary "Crucible of Empire"]; Ten days after President McKinley's death, the residents of Balangiga, a tiny village 400 miles southeast of Manila, attacked the local U.S. garrison. While U.S. soldiers ate breakfast, the church bells rang a signal. Filipinos brandishing machetes emerged from their hiding places.  Forty-eight Americans, two-thirds of the garrison, were butchered, in what is called the [[Balangiga_massacre|Balangiga massacre]]. On the orders of General Jacob H. Smith, U.S. troops retaliated against the entire island of Samar where Balangiga is located. The exchange is known because of two courts-martial: one of Waller, who was later court-martialed for ordering or allowing the execution of a dozen Filipino bearers, and the other of Gen. Jacob H. Smith, who was actually court-martialed for giving that order. The jury is out to the extent that order was carried out, because Littleton Waller actually countermanded it to his own men and said "Captain David Porter, I've had instructions to kill everyone over ten years old. But we are not making war on women and children, only on men capable of bearing arms. Keep that in mind no matter what other orders you receive." Undoubtedly, some men did commit atrocities regardless of Waller's commands.</ref>他因這一事件受到軍事法庭的審判，菲律賓歷史學家認為死亡數字約為5萬人。<ref name="young">Fritz, David L, Before "The Howling Wilderness": The Military Career of Jacob Heard Smith, ''Military Affairs'', November–December (1979), p. 186</ref>

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:美國陸軍將領|Category:美國陸軍將領]]
[[Category:北軍軍官|Category:北軍軍官]]
[[Category:俄亥俄州南北戰爭人物|Category:俄亥俄州南北戰爭人物]]
[[Category:美西戰爭美國軍事人物|Category:美西戰爭美國軍事人物]]
[[Category:美菲戰爭美國軍事人物|Category:美菲戰爭美國軍事人物]]
[[Category:受軍法審判的美國陸軍軍人|Category:受軍法審判的美國陸軍軍人]]
[[Category:安葬於阿靈頓國家公墓者|Category:安葬於阿靈頓國家公墓者]]