'''琪寶製藥有限公司'''，('''Christo Pharmaceuticals Limited''')，總公司在[[香港|香港]][[荃灣|荃灣]][[沙咀道|沙咀道]][[荃運工業中心|荃運工業中心]]，而[[製藥|製藥]][[工廠|工廠]]在[[廣東省|廣東省]][[廣州|廣州]][[南沙經濟技術開發區|南沙經濟技術開發區]]。
  
 琪寶製藥香港成立於1973年的香港，客戶包括[[香港公立醫院|香港公立醫院]]。成品分為[[片劑|片劑]]、[[膠囊|膠囊]]、[[口服液|口服液]]、[[抗生素|抗生素]]、[[藥膏|藥膏]]等包裝。

Christo Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has a history of wholesale and distribution of pharmaceutical products in Hong Kong since 1973. They have over 300 registered pharmaceutical products, including tablet, capsule, oral liquid and topical preparations manufactured from varies countries. 

Over the last 40 years, tey had developed their sales and marketing team and also an experienced delivery service teams to provide the most efficient and high standard service to their clients.


Their Mission 

They aim to provide pharmaceutical products and services of consistently with superior quality at price levels that are fair and competitive. 


Their Core Value 

The Company is founded on 3 major components which form the basic of their relationships with their customers and business partners. 

Focus – They commit themselves to focus their business and services within pharmaceutical industry to serve the best to their community. 

Continuity – They commit themselves to continually improve the performance of the company and the quality of their work with trust and integrity. 

Innovative – They commit themselves to understand and meet the changing requirements and expectations of their customers through teamwork. 


The Company Motto:

" QUALITY from our HEARTS, The PROMISE of SUCCESS "


Their Customers

Their customers are from both public and private hospitals, doctors, dentists, veterinary clinics, key chain and all individuals' pharmacies. They also have a long term business partner to cover the needs in Macau area. 


Their Quality Services

As a pharmaceutical company for nearly 40 years in Hong Kong, They highly observe the quality of their products in order to gain trust from all of their clients. They are willing to try their best to meet the public needs. 




== 外部參考 ==
* [http://christopharm.cn.alibaba.com/ 琪寶藥廠]{{dead link|date=2018年3月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}
*[www.christo.com.hk]



[[Category:藥品制劑分銷及制药公司|Category:藥品制劑分銷及制药公司]]


{{Med-company-stub}}