{{Speciesbox
| genus = Phintella
| species = melloteei
| authority = (Simon, 1888){{r|id14813}}
| synonyms_refs =
| synonyms = 
* ''Phintella difficilis'' {{small|(Boes. et Str., 1906)}}{{r|id14812}}
* ''Phintella difficilis'' <small>Prószynski, 1986</small><ref name = "col323819"/>
* ''Icius difficilis'' <small>Prószynski, 1976</small><ref name = "col323814"/><ref name = "col323815"/><ref name = "col323816"/><ref name = "col323817"/><ref name = "col323818"/>
* ''Dexippus lesserti'' <small>Schenkel, 1963</small><ref name = "col323821"/>
* ''Sitticus pallicolor'' <small>Bösenberg, Strand, 1906</small><ref name = "col323820"/>
* ''Jotus difficilis'' <small>Bösenberg, Strand, 1906</small><ref name = "col285197"/><ref name = "col323812"/><ref name = "col323813"/>
* ''Telamonia melloteei'' <small>{{tsl|sv|Simon (auktor)||Simon}}, 1901</small><ref name = "col323811"/>
* ''Maevia mellotei'' <small>{{tsl|sv|Simon (auktor)||Simon}}, 1889</small><ref name = "col323810"/>
}}

'''困金蝉蛛'''{{r|id14812}}（学名：{{lang|la|''Phintella melloteei''}}），又名'''机敏金蝉蛛'''{{r|id14813}}，为[[跳蛛科|跳蛛科]][[金蝉蛛属|金蝉蛛属]]的动物。

==分佈==
分布于[[日本|日本]]以及[[中国大陆|中国大陆]]的[[湖南|湖南]]、[[湖北|湖北]]、[[浙江|浙江]]、[[甘肃|甘肃]]、[[陕西|陕西]]、[[吉林|吉林]]等地。<ref name='id14812'/>
分布于罗马尼亚、独联体、[[日本|日本]]以及[[中国大陆|中国大陆]]的[[吉林|吉林]]、[[甘肃|甘肃]]、[[陕西|陕西]]、[[浙江|浙江]]、[[湖北|湖北]]、[[湖南|湖南]]、[[云南|云南]]等地。<ref name='id14813'/>

该物种的模式产地在日本。<ref name='id14812'/>

==参考文献==
{{reflist|refs=
<ref name='id14812'>{{cite web| url =http://www.bioinfo.cn/db05/BjdwSpecies.php?action=view&id=14812| title =困金蝉蛛| work =《中国动物物种编目数据库》| publisher =中国科学院微生物研究所| author =中国科学院动物研究所| accessdate =2009-04-28| deadurl =yes| archiveurl =https://web.archive.org/web/20160305041014/http://www.bioinfo.cn/db05/BjdwSpecies.php?action=view&id=14812| archivedate =2016-03-05}}</ref>
<ref name='id14813'>{{cite web| url =http://www.bioinfo.cn/db05/BjdwSpecies.php?action=view&id=14813| title =机敏金婵蛛| work =《中国动物物种编目数据库》| publisher =中国科学院微生物研究所| author =中国科学院动物研究所| accessdate =2009-04-28| deadurl =yes| archiveurl =https://web.archive.org/web/20160305050905/http://www.bioinfo.cn/db05/BjdwSpecies.php?action=view&id=14813| archivedate =2016-03-05}}</ref>
<ref name = "col323819">Yaginuma T. (1986) Spiders of Japan in color (new ed.), Hoikusha Publ. Co.: 232, illustrations 129.4</ref>
<ref name = "col323815">Prószynski J. (1979) Systematic studies on East Palaearctic Salticidae III. Remarks on Salticidae of the USSR, Annales zoologici, Warszawa: 311, illustrations 143-144[f 145-149 = male I.parvus?]</ref>
<ref name = "col323816">Wesolowska W. (1981a) Salticidae (Aranei) from North Korea, China and Mongolia., Annales zoologici, Warszawa: 57</ref>
<ref name = "col323817">Dunin P.M. (1984b) Materialy k izucheniu fauny paukov Dalnego Vosto ka (Arachnida, Aranei). I. Semeystvo Salticidae, Sbornik nauchnykh trudov: 134, illustrations 31-33</ref>
<ref name = "col323818">Prószynski J. (1978b) Distributional patterns of the Palaearctic Salticidae (Araneae), Proceedings of the zoological Society of London, London: 336, illustrations 1.4</ref>
<ref name = "col323820">Bösenberg W., Strand E. (1906) Japanische Spinnen, Abhandlungen senckenbergischen naturforschenden Gesselschaft, Frankfurt/M: 341, illustrations t 9, f 152</ref>
<ref name = "col323821">Schenkel E. (1963) Ostasiatische Spinnen aus dem Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de Paris, Mémoires du Museum national d'Histoire naturelle, N.S., Zoologie, Paris: 451, illustrations 257</ref>
<ref name = "col285197">Yaginuma T. (1970) , 671</ref>
<ref name = "col323810">Simon E. (1889a) Etudes arachnologiques. 21e Memoire. XXXIII. Descriptions de quelques especes recueillies au Japan, par A. Mellotee, Annales de la Société entomologique de France, Paris: 248[species named for one Mr. Mellotee]</ref>
<ref name = "col323811">Simon E. (1901a) Histoire Naturelle des Araignees, 540</ref>
<ref name = "col285197">Yaginuma T. (1970) , 671</ref>
<ref name = "col323812">Bösenberg W., Strand E. (1906) Japanische Spinnen, Abhandlungen senckenbergischen naturforschenden Gesselschaft, Frankfurt/M: 336, illustrations t 14, f 379</ref>
<ref name = "col323813">Hu J.L. (1984) The Chinese spiders collected from the fields and the forests, ianjin Press of Science and Techniques: 369, illustrations 384.1-4</ref>
<ref name = "col323814">Prószynski J. (1976) Studium systematyczno-zoogeograficzne nad rodzina Salticidae (Aranei) Regionow Palearktycznego i Nearktycznego, Rozprawy Wyzszej Szkoly Pedagogicznej, 6., Siedlce,: , illustrations map 103</ref>
}}



==外部連結==
{{commons category|Phintella melloteei}}
*{{Wikispecies-inline|Phintella melloteei}}

[[Category:金蝉蛛属|melloteei]]


{{蜘蛛小作品}}