{{expand English}}
{{missing information|否决学习风格存在的[[随机对照实验|随机对照实验]]}}

通常认为大多数人都有自己一些特殊的认识事物、理解事物以及处理[[刺激|刺激]]或[[信息|信息]]的模式。基于这一观念，“学习风格”的思想起源于1970年代，近年来获得普及。学习风格是假定能够使个人达到最佳[[学习|学习]]状态的方法。这一理论提议教师应该评估其学生的学习风格，并使其课堂教学方法能够最适合每个学生的学习风格。
==模型与理论==

目前，已经至少提出了80种学习风格模型，每一种都包括至少两种不同风格。

===VARK模型<ref>{{Cite web|title=Are You a Visual, Auditory, Reading/Writing, or Tactile Learner?|url=https://www.verywellmind.com/vark-learning-styles-2795156|accessdate=2020-09-09|work=Verywell Mind|language=en|archive-date=2020-09-13|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200913002452/https://www.verywellmind.com/vark-learning-styles-2795156|dead-url=no}}</ref>===

*視覺
*聽覺
*觸覺
*操作

===大衛科博模型===

大衛科博模型是從經驗學習理論來的。經驗學習理論認為人有兩種模式抓取資訊，一種為實際體驗，另一種為抽象思考，同時也有兩種模式轉化經驗，一為客觀的觀察，另一為主動的實驗。根據大衛科博的模型，理想的學習應該包含上述這四種方式，並且依照不同的情境而有所改變。為了讓我們的學習更有效率，我們必須在這巧妙的切換與整合這四種方式。然而，當一個人試著使用這四種方式時，他們通常會發展出比較擅長的抓取經驗與轉化經驗的方式，結果不同的抓取資訊與轉化經驗的模式，造成了下述四種不同的學習風格：

1. 同化
2. 異化
3. 歸納
4. 適應

具有同化學習風格者的特徵是以抽象思考與主動實驗，他們非常擅長將理論做實際的應用，並且用推導後的結果來解決問題。

具有異化學習風格者，喜歡實際體驗與客觀觀察，他們具有想像力，擅長從不同的面向來看待事物與得到靈感。

歸納學習風格者的特徵為抽象思考與客觀觀察，他們能夠以歸納法來創建理論模型。

適應型的學習風格喜觀實際體驗與主動實驗，他們的長處在於行動力與能夠主動的與世界產生關係，而非只是單純從閱讀中或是課堂中學習。

科博的模型開啟了學習風格這項主題與發展了檢測來鑑別個別學生的學習風格。從他對學習的研究與經驗學習理論模型中，一個人會展現出慣用的一種風格。


<!-- === Visual, Auditory, Kinesthetic ([[Representational_systems_(NLP)#PRS_as_a_learning_style|VAK]] and VARK) ===
{{main|Representational systems (NLP)}} -->
<!-- One family of models emphasizes the sensory modalities of informing stimuli. The models in this family may use different terms to describe same or similar learning styles. These models often describe three basic learning styles:  
*[[Visual_learning|Visual learning]] (learn by seeing)
*[[Auditory_learning|Auditory learning]] (learn by hearing)
*[[Kinesthetic_learning|Kinesthetic learning]] or practical (learn by doing).

In such models, the term ''multi-modal'' describes people who have more than one strong 学习风格。 -->

===其他模型===
<!-- Aiming to explain why aptitude tests, school grades, and classroom performance often fail to identify real ability, Robert J. Sternberg listed various cognitive dimensions in his book ''Thinking Styles'' (1997).  Several other models are also often used when researching learning styles. This includes the [[Myers_Briggs_Type_Indicator|Myers Briggs Type Indicator]] (MBTI), [[Howard_Gardner|Howard Gardner]]'s Multiple Intelligence Model and the [[DISC_assessment|DISC assessment]].

In contrast to the VARK method of assessing learning, [http://www.cymeon.com Jackson’s Learning Styles Profiler (LSP)] argues for a biological and cognitive basis to learning. This 'neuropsychological theory' does not set out to measure learning preferences. Instead Jackson sets out to differentiate between functional and dysfunctional learners. Functional learners are curious about the world and have the cognitive skills to become successful whereas dysfunctional learners lack these skills. This is a new model of self-development learning with much validation evidence set out in the manual. -->

<!-- ===Assessment Instruments=== -->
<!-- Instruments (usually questionnaires) used to identify learning styles include [[David_A._Kolb|Kolb's]] Learning Styles Inventory, Fleming's VARK Learning Style Test, and the NLP [[meta_program|meta program]]s based iWAM questionnaire.
The following assessment instruments represent 1numerous major approaches to measuring learning styles. 
*[http://www.petalslearning.com Learning Styles Questionnaire - The JAS Group]
* Allinson and Hayes’ Cognitive Styles Index (CSI)
* Apter’s Motivational Style Profile (MSP)
* Dunn and Dunn model and instruments of learning styles
* [[Noel_Entwistle|Entwistle]]’s Approaches and Study Skills Inventory for Students (ASSIST)
* [[Anthony_Gregorc|Gregorc]]’s Mind Styles Model and Style Delineator (GSD)
* [http://www.hbdi.com Herrmann’s Brain Dominance Instrument (HBDI)]
* Honey and Mumford’s Learning Styles Questionnaire (LSQ)
* [http://www.cymeon.com/lss2.asp Jackson’s Learning Styles Profiler (LSP)]
* [[David_A._Kolb|Kolb]]’s Learning Style Inventory (LSI)
* [http://www.learning-styles-online.com/inventory/ Learning Styles Online (Memletics)]
* [http://www.engr.ncsu.edu/learningstyles/ilsweb.html NC State University Index of Learning Styles Questionnaire]
* Riding’s Cognitive Styles Analysis (CSA)
* [[Robert_Sternberg|Sternberg]]’s Thinking Styles Inventory (TSI)
* Vermunt’s Inventory of Learning Styles (ILS).
* Multi-Model Paired Associates Learning Test (see http://www.learningstyles.org)
* Perceptual Modality Paired Associates Learning Test (see http://www.learningstyles.org)
This is not an exhaustive list and at least 58 other instruments have been developed. -->

==根据==
学习风格理论已经受到许多人的批评。一些心理学家和神经科学家质疑这些模式有否科学根据，以及这些理论是根据什么。许多[[教育心理学|教育心理学]]家相信大多数学习风格模型并无科学根据，而且，这些模型经常建立在不可靠的理论立场上。<ref name=curry>Curry, L. (1990).学习风格研究的批评. ''教育领导, 48'', 50-56.</ref> Stahl批评说，<ref name=stahl>Stahl, S. A. (2002). Different strokes for different folks? In L. Abbeduto (Ed.), ''Taking sides: Clashing on controversial issues in 教育心理学'' (pp. 98-107). Guilford, CT, USA: McGraw-Hill.</ref>“在评估儿童学习风格以及找到相应的帮助学习的教育方法上，已经完全失败。”

<!-- ===The critique of Coffield, et al.===
A non-peer-reviewed literature review by authors from the [[University_of_Newcastle_upon_Tyne|University of Newcastle upon Tyne]] identified 71 different theories of learning style.<ref name=Coffield>Coffield, F., Moseley, D., Hall, E., Ecclestone, K. (2004). [http://www.lsda.org.uk/files/PDF/1543.pdf ''Learning styles and pedagogy in post-16 learning. A systematic and critical review''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.lsda.org.uk/files/PDF/1543.pdf |date=20081205043419 }}. London: Learning and Skills Research Centre.</ref> This report, published in 2004, criticized most of the main instruments used to identify an individual's learning style. In conducting the review, Coffield and his colleagues selected 13 of the most influential models for closer study, including most of the models cited on this page. They examined the theoretical origins and terms of each model, and the instrument that was purported to assess types of learning style defined by the model. They analyzed the claims made by the author(s), external studies of these claims, and independent empirical evidence of the relationship between the 'learning style' identified by the instrument and students' actual learning. Coffield's team found that none of the most popular learning style theories had been adequately validated through independent research, leading to the conclusion that the idea of a learning cycle, the consistency of visual, auditory and kinaesthetic preferences and the value of matching teaching and learning styles were all "highly questionable." -->

<!-- ====Coffield's critique of Dunn and Dunn's learning styles model==== -->
<!-- One of the most widely-known theories assessed by Coffield's team was the learning styles model of Dunn and Dunn, a VAK model.<ref name=dunn>Dunn, R., Dunn, K., & Price, G. E. (1984). ''Learning style inventory.'' Lawrence, KS, USA: Price Systems.</ref> This model is widely used in schools in the United States, and 177 articles have been published in peer-reviewed journals referring to this model <ref name=Coffield>Coffield, F., Moseley, D., Hall, E., Ecclestone, K. (2004). [http://www.lsda.org.uk/files/PDF/1543.pdf ''Learning styles and pedagogy in post-16 learning. A systematic and critical review''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.lsda.org.uk/files/PDF/1543.pdf |date=20081205043419 }}. London: Learning and Skills Research Centre.</ref>. The conclusion of Coffield et al. was as follows:
<blockquote>
''Despite a large and evolving research programme, forceful claims made for impact are questionable because of limitations in many of the supporting studies and the lack of independent research on the model.''<ref name=Coffield/> 
</blockquote>  In contrast, a 2005 report provided evidence confirming the validity of Dunn and Dunn's model, concluding that "matching students’ learning-style preferences with complementary instruction improved academic achievement and student attitudes toward learning."  This meta-analysis, made by one of Rita Dunn's students, does not take account of the previous criticism on the research.<ref name=Lovelace>Lovelace, MK (2005). [http://eric.ed.gov/ERICWebPortal/Home.portal?_nfpb=true&_pageLabel=RecordDetails&ERICExtSearch_SearchValue_0=EJ698743&ERICExtSearch_SearchType_0=eric_accno&objectId=0900000b8034c84a ''Meta-Analysis of Experimental Research Based on the Dunn and Dunn Model'']. Journal Of Educational Research, 98: 176-183.</ref> -->

<!-- ====Coffield's critique of Gregorc's Style Delineator==== -->
<!-- Coffield's team claimed that another model, Gregorc's Style Delineator (GSD), was "theoretically and psychometrically flawed" and "not suitable for the assessment of individuals." --> 

===其他批评===
<!-- Coffield and colleagues are not alone in their judgement. [[Demos|Demos]], a UK think tank, published a report on learning styles prepared by a group chaired by [[Exeter_University|Exeter University]]'s David Hargreaves that included Usha Goswami from [[剑桥大学|剑桥大学]] and David Wood from the [[诺丁汉大学|诺丁汉大学]]. The Demos report said that the evidence for learning styles was "highly variable", and that practitioners were "not by any means frank about the evidence for their work."  <ref name=Hargreaves>Hargreaves, D., et al. (2005). [http://www.demos.co.uk/catalogue/aboutlearning/ ''About learning: Report of the Learning Working Group'']. Demos.</ref> 

Cautioning against interpreting neuropsychological research as supporting the applicability of learning style theory, John Geake，英国[[Oxford_Brookes_University|Oxford Brookes University]]教育学教授, and a research collaborator with [[牛津大学|牛津大学]]'s Centre for Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Brain, commented that
<blockquote>''We need to take extreme care when moving from the lab to the classroom. We do remember things visually and aurally, but information isn't defined by how it was received''.<ref name=Revell>Revell, P. (2005). [http://education.guardian.co.uk/egweekly/story/0,,1495514,00.html Each to their own. ''The Guardian''.]</ref>
</blockquote> -->

==参考文献==
<div class="references-small">
<references />
</div>

== 参见 ==
{{div col|2}}
*[[个体差异心理学|个体差异心理学]]
*[[教育|教育]]
*[[蒙台梭利教学法|蒙台梭利教学法]]
*[[学习|学习]]
<!-- *[[Constructivism_(learning_theory)|Constructivism (learning theory)]]
*[[Metacognition|Metacognition]] -->
*[[认知风格|认知风格]]
<!-- *[[Big_Five_personality_traits|Big Five personality traits]]
*[[Forer_effect|Forer effect]] -->
*[[教育心理学|教育心理学]]
*[[b:Contemporary_Educational_Psychology|教师的教育心理学]]
{{div col end}}

==外部链接==
{{div col|2}}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20180314114314/http://petalslearning.com/ Learning Style Questionnaire - The JAS Group]
*[http://www.hbdi.com Herrmann Whole Brain Theory]{{Wayback|url=http://www.hbdi.com/ |date=20200329064836 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20070823203744/http://www.plsweb.com/resources/kaleidoscope/ Learning Styles Inventory - The Kaleidoscope Profile]
*[http://www.infed.org/biblio/b-explrn.htm Infed's David A. Kolb on Experiential Learning]{{Wayback|url=http://www.infed.org/biblio/b-explrn.htm |date=20121029113620 }}
*[http://www.vark-learn.com/english/page.asp?p=questionnaire online VARK Learning Style Test]{{Wayback|url=http://www.vark-learn.com/english/page.asp?p=questionnaire |date=20070821150306 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20070818104213/http://www.learnativity.com/learningstyles.html Learnativity:  Learning Styles]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20060522225634/http://ferl.becta.org.uk/display.cfm?printable=1&resID=7543 Introduction to learning styles by Ann Harris, Ferl, Becta]
*[http://www.jobeq.com/articles/role_of_learning.pdf The effect of Learning Styles, Work attitude and Motivation on Lifelong Learning]{{Wayback|url=http://www.jobeq.com/articles/role_of_learning.pdf |date=20070927213155 }}
*[http://agelesslearner.com/intros/adultlearning.html Ageless Learner]{{Wayback|url=http://agelesslearner.com/intros/adultlearning.html |date=20070929194935 }}
*[http://www.nwlink.com/~donclark/hrd/styles.html Big Dog's ISD Page]{{Wayback|url=http://www.nwlink.com/~donclark/hrd/styles.html |date=20070823000245 }}
*[http://www.engr.ncsu.edu/learningstyles/ilsweb.html NC State University (Online Test)]{{Wayback|url=http://www.engr.ncsu.edu/learningstyles/ilsweb.html |date=20070829051632 }}
*[http://www.ncsu.edu/felder-public/Papers/Secondtier.html Reaching the second tier learning and teachong styles in college science education ]{{Wayback|url=http://www.ncsu.edu/felder-public/Papers/Secondtier.html |date=20070519085531 }}
*[http://www.ncsu.edu/felder-public/ILSdir/styles.htm Learning styles and strategies - Richard M. Felder]{{Wayback|url=http://www.ncsu.edu/felder-public/ILSdir/styles.htm |date=20070507062321 }}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20060619090148/http://www.d.umn.edu/student/loon/acad/strat/lrnsty.html University of Minnesota resources on learning styles]
* [http://www2.gsu.edu/~dschjb/wwwmbti.html Myers-Brigg and learning styles]{{Wayback|url=http://www2.gsu.edu/~dschjb/wwwmbti.html |date=20041120090310 }}
* [http://www.nwlink.com/~donclark/hrd/learning/styles.html Tutorial on learning styles]{{Wayback|url=http://www.nwlink.com/~donclark/hrd/learning/styles.html |date=20070824175552 }}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20060713200421/http://web.indstate.edu/ctl/styles/ls1.html Indiana State University learning styles site]
* [http://www.oswego.edu/Acad_Dept/s_of_educ/curr/plsi/ Paragon learning styles inventory]{{Wayback|url=http://www.oswego.edu/Acad_Dept/s_of_educ/curr/plsi/ |date=20050216110558 }}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20070822132044/http://falcon.jmu.edu/~ramseyil/learningstyles.htm James Madison University learning styles site]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20070826155814/http://www.usd.edu/trio/tut/ts/style.html University of South Dakota learning styles resources]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20070126134046/http://dcit.clemson.edu/resources/breeze/cognitive_profile/ Clemson University presentation on Cognitive Profile for learning styles]
{{div col end}}

[[Category:学习|Category:学习]]
[[Category:學習理論|Category:學習理論]]
[[Category:教育心理学|Category:教育心理学]]