{{noteTA
|G1=IT
|1=zh-cn:伯克利;zh-hk:柏克萊;zh-tw:柏克萊;
}}
{{Infobox scientist
| name = 埃尔温·伯利坎普<br />Elwyn R. Berlekamp 
| image = Elwyn R Berlekamp 2005.jpg
| image_size = 200px
| birth_date  = {{Birth date|1940|9|6}}
| birth_place = {{USA}}[[俄亥俄州|俄亥俄州]]{{link-en|多佛 (俄亥俄州)|Dover, Ohio|多佛}}
| death_date  = {{death date and age|2019|4|9|1940|9|6}}
| death_place = {{USA}}[[加利福尼亞州|加利福尼亞州]][[皮蒙特_(加利福尼亞州)|皮蒙特]]
| nationality = {{USA}}
| alma_mater = [[麻省理工學院|麻省理工學院]]
| workplaces = [[柏克萊加州大學|柏克萊加州大學]]
| fields = [[資訊理論|資訊理論]]、[[編碼理論|編碼理論]]、[[組合博弈論|組合博弈論]]
| known_for  = [[伯利坎普－梅西算法|伯利坎普－梅西算法]]<br />[[伯利坎普－韦尔奇算法|伯利坎普－韦尔奇算法]]
}}
'''埃尔温·拉尔夫·伯利坎普'''（{{lang-en|Elwyn Ralph Berlekamp}}，{{bd|1940年|9月6日|2019年|4月9日|catIdx=Berlekamp}}），[[美國|美國]][[數學家|數學家]]與[[電腦科學家|電腦科學家]]，[[柏克萊加州大學|柏克萊加州大學]][[教授|榮譽教授]]。他對現代[[編碼理論|編碼理論]]和[[組合博弈論|組合博弈論]]做出了很大貢獻。<ref name=44a>Contributors, ''IEEE Transactions on Information Theory'' '''42''', #3 (May 1996), p. 1048.  DOI [http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TIT.1996.490574 10.1109/TIT.1996.490574].</ref><ref name=ucb>[http://math.berkeley.edu/index.php?module=mathfacultyman&MATHFACULTY_MAN_op=sView&MATHFACULTY_id=111 Elwyn Berlekamp] {{Wayback|url=http://math.berkeley.edu/index.php?module=mathfacultyman&MATHFACULTY_MAN_op=sView&MATHFACULTY_id=111 |date=20191029143130 }} 在[[柏克萊加州大學|柏克萊加州大學]]的頁面.</ref>

== 生平 ==
伯利坎普生於[[俄亥俄州|俄亥俄州]]Dover市，並就讀於[[麻省理工學院|麻省理工學院]]的[[電子工程|電子工程]]專業。他在[[麻省理工學院|麻省理工學院]]期間獲得了知名的[[威廉·羅威爾·普特南數學競賽|威廉·羅威爾·普特南數學競賽奖学金]]。伯利坎普於1962年完成了[[B.S.|B.S.]]與[[M.S.|M.S.]]，並繼續在[[麻省理工學院|MIT]]進行[[Ph.D.|博士]]研究，並最終畢業於1964年。他的博士導師之一為著名的[[資訊理論|資訊理論]]鼻祖[[克勞德·夏農|克勞德·夏農]]。博士畢業後，伯利坎普前往[[柏克萊加州大學|柏克萊加州大學]]執教兩年，並於1966年前往[[貝爾實驗室|貝爾實驗室]]進行研究工作。1971年，伯利坎普返回了[[柏克萊加州大學|柏克萊加州大學]]並一直任教至今。<ref name=44a /><ref name=ucb /><ref name=43a>[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/tocresult.jsp?isnumber=22678 Contributors] {{Wayback|url=http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/tocresult.jsp?isnumber=22678 |date=20191031073732 }}, ''IEEE Transactions on Information Theory'' '''20''', #3 (May 1974), p. 408.</ref>
<!--He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering (1977)[4] and the National Academy of Sciences (1999).[5] He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1996.[6] He received in 1991 the IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal,[7] and in 1998 the Golden Jubilee Award for Technological Innovation from the IEEE Information Theory Society.[8]

Berlekamp is one of the inventors of the Welch-Berlekamp and Berlekamp-Massey algorithms, which are used to implement Reed-Solomon error correction. In the mid-1980s, he was president of Cyclotomics, Inc., a corporation which developed error-correcting code technology.[1] With John Horton Conway and Richard K. Guy, he co-authored Winning Ways for your Mathematical Plays, leading to his recognition as one of the founders of combinatorial game theory. He has studied various games, including Fox and Geese and other fox games, dots and boxes, and, especially, Go. With David Wolfe, Berlekamp co-authored the book Mathematical Go, which describes methods for analyzing certain classes of Go endgames.

Outside of mathematics and computer science, Berlekamp is active in money management. In 1986, on behalf of Axcom Trading Advisors, a futures trading company, Berlekamp began information-theoretic studies of commodity and financial futures. In 1989, Berlekamp owned the largest interest in Axcom. After the firm's futures trading algorithms were rewritten, Axcom's flagship fund had a return (in 1990) of 55%, net of all management fees and transaction costs. Today, this fund is known as the Medallion Fund and is managed by James Harris Simons and his Renaissance Technologies Corporation.[9]

Berlekamp and his wife Jennifer have two daughters and a son and live in Piedmont, California.-->

伯利坎普創作過一種名為[[數學卡片棋|數學卡片棋]]的[[圍棋|圍棋]]變體；並和[[約翰·何頓·康威|約翰·何頓·康威]]與理察·蓋伊共同創作[[哲球棋|哲球棋]]。


埃尔温·伯利坎普和他的妻子Jennifer有兩個女兒和一個兒子。 他住在[[加利福尼亞州|加利福尼亞州]]的[[皮蒙特_(加利福尼亞州)|皮埃蒙特]]。 他於2019年4月去世，享年78歲<ref>[http://ludicum.org/elwyn-berlekamp Ludus: Elwyn Berlekamp death notice] {{Wayback|url=http://ludicum.org/elwyn-berlekamp |date=20190413092448 }} {{pt icon}}</ref>。

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist|30em}}

{{-}}
{{克劳德·E·香农奖获得者}}
{{IEEE理查德·W·汉明奖章获得者}}

{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Berlekamp}}
[[Category:美國數學家|Category:美國數學家]]
[[Category:美國電腦科學家|Category:美國電腦科學家]]
[[Category:麻省理工学院工学院校友|Category:麻省理工学院工学院校友]]
[[Category:加利福尼亞大學柏克萊分校教師|Category:加利福尼亞大學柏克萊分校教師]]
[[Category:美國文理科學院院士|Category:美國文理科學院院士]]
[[Category:美國國家科學院院士|Category:美國國家科學院院士]]
[[Category:IEEE理查德·W·汉明奖章获得者|Category:IEEE理查德·W·汉明奖章获得者]]
[[Category:克劳德·E·香农奖获得者|Category:克劳德·E·香农奖获得者]]