{{Taxobox
| name = 光滑織紋螺<br />''Nassarius dorsatus''
| image = Nassarius_dorsatus_01.JPG
| image_caption =
| image_width = 
| regnum  = [[动物界|动物界]] Animalia
| phylum  = [[软体动物门|软体动物门]] Mollusca
| classis = [[腹足纲|腹足纲]] Gastropoda
| unranked_ordo = 
[[新進腹足類|新進腹足類]]支序 Caenogastropoda<br />
[[高腹足類|高腹足類]]支序　Hypsogastropoda<br />
[[新腹足類|新腹足類]]支序 Neogastropoda
| superfamilia = [[蛾螺總科|蛾螺總科]] Buccinoidea
| familia = [[织纹螺科|织纹螺科]] Nassariidae
| subfamilia = [[织纹螺亚科|织纹螺亚科]]　Nassariinae
| genus = [[織紋螺屬|織紋螺屬]] ''Nassarius''
| species = '''光滑织纹螺 ''N. dorsatus'''''
| binomial = ''Nassarius dorsatus''
| binomial_authority = ([[Röding|Röding]], 1798)
| synonyms = [[#異名|見內文]]
| synonyms_ref = <ref>[http://clade.ansp.org/obis/search.php/15337 OBIS : ''Nassarius'' (''Zeuxis'') ''dorsatus'']</ref>
}}

'''光滑織紋螺'''（学名：{{lang|la|'''''Nassarius dorsatus'''''}}），是[[新腹足目|新腹足目]][[织纹螺科|织纹螺科]]''Zeuxis''的一种<ref name=WoRMS_572148 /><ref name=Cernohorsky1981 /><ref name=shell_1050 /><ref name="shelldoc_000273" />。主要分布于[[中国大陆|中国大陆]]、[[台湾|台湾]]，常栖息在潮下带<ref name=shell_1050 />。

==簡述==
殼長從 15 mm 到 45 mm 不等。

The ovate, conical shell is smooth andof a uniform ashy white color. The [[Spire_(mollusc)|spire]] is composed of eight [[Whorl_(mollusc)|whorl]]s. The upper ones are slightly plaited, the lowest pretty large, marked with more or less straight, longitudinal lines, approximate, and of a color a little deeper and reddish. The base of the shell is ornamented with six or seven furrows. The ovate [[Aperture_(mollusc)|aperture]] is, white, fawn-colored within. The thick outer [[Lip_(gastropod)|lip]] is arcuated towards the base, elevated exteriorly into a thick, very prominent margin.  Within it is striated throughout its whole length. The left lip is thick, and partially covering the [[Columella_(gastropod)|columella]], which is adorned with guttules one half of its length. The first of these guttules, which is uppermost, is much more marked than the others. At the base of the columella is found a very prominent fold, terminated by a guttule formed like a flattened point. <ref name="Kiener">[http://ia801409.us.archive.org/6/items/generalspeciesic00kien/generalspeciesic00kien.pdf Kiener (1840). General species and iconography of recent shells : comprising the Massena Museum, the collection of Lamarck, the collection of the Museum of Natural History, and the recent discoveries of travellers; Boston :W.D. Ticknor,1837] (described as  ''Buccinum unicolorum'')</ref>

==Distribution==
This marine species occurs in the tropical Western Pacific, off [[East_India|East India]], the [[Philippines|Philippines]], [[Papua_New_Guinea|Papua New Guinea]] and Australia ([[New_South_Wales|New South Wales]], the [[Northern_Territory|Northern Territory]], [[Queensland|Queensland]], [[Western_Australia|Western Australia]])

==寄生蟲==
* ''[[Stephanostomum|Stephanostomum]]''-like [[cercaria|cercaria]]e from Australia: ''Cercaria capricornia'' VII<ref name="Barnett 2010"/> and ''Cercaria capricornia'' VIII<ref name="Barnett 2010">Barnett L. J., Miller T. L. & Cribb T. H. (2010). "Two new ''Stephanostomum''-like cercariae (Digenea: Acanthocolpidae) from ''Nassarius dorsatus'' and ''N. olivaceus'' (Gastropoda: Nassariidae) in Central Queensland, Australia". ''[[Zootaxa|Zootaxa]]'' '''2445''': 35–52. [http://www.mapress.com/zootaxa/2010/f/zt02445p052.pdf PDF].</ref>

==異名==
* ''Arcularia dorsata'' <small>(Röding, 1798)</small>
* ''Buccinum dorsatum'' <small>Röding, 1798</small><ref name=WoRMS_572148 /><ref name=Cernohorsky1981 />（原來名稱）
* ''Buccinum laeve sinuatum'' <small>Chemnitz, 1780</small>
* ''Buccinum trifasciatum'' <small>Gmelin, 1791</small>
* ''Buccinum unicolorum'' <small>Kiener, 1834</small>
* ''Bullia cinerea'' <small>Preston, 1906</small>
* ''Nassa (Alectrion) rutilans'' <small>Reeve, 1853</small>
* ''Nassa dorsata'' <small>(Röding, 1798)</small>
* ''Nassa laevis'' <small>Mörch, 1852</small>
* ''Nassa livida'' <small>Gray in King, 1827</small>
* ''Nassa nitidula'' <small>Marrat, 1880</small>
* ''Nassa rutilans'' <small>Reeve, 1853</small>
* ''Nassa trifasciata'' <small>(Gmelin, 1791)</small>
* ''Nassa unicolor'' <small>E. A. Smith, 1884</small>
* ''Nassa unicolorata'' <small>Reeve, 1853</small>
* ''Nassarius (Zeuxis) dorsatus'' <small>(Röding, 1798)</small> · accepted, alternate representation
* ''Tarazeuxis unicolorus'' <small>(Kiener, 1834)</small>
* ''Zeuxis dorsatus'' <small>(Röding, 1798)</small><ref name=shell_1050 />

==参考文献==
{{reflist|refs=
<ref name=Cernohorsky1981>{{cite journal |last=Cernohorsky |first=W.O. |year=1981 |title=Revision of the Australian and New Zealand Tertiary and Recent species of the family Nassariidae (Mollusca: Gastropoda) |journal=Records of the Auckland Institute and Museum |volume=18 |pages=137-192 |language=en }}</ref>
<ref name=WoRMS_572148>{{cite WoRMS |id=572148 |title=''Nassarius dorsatus'' (Röding, 1798) |author=Tran, Bastien & Bouchet, Philippe |date=2013-09-11 |accessdate=2016-10-17 }}</ref>
<ref name=shell_1050>{{cite web|url=http://shell.sinica.edu.tw/chinese/shellbase_detail.php?science_no=1050|title=国际贝库：光滑织纹螺|publisher=台湾贝类资料库|accessdate=2009-08-11}}</ref>
<ref name="shelldoc_000273">http://shell.sinica.edu.tw/chinese/documentquery_c.php?No=000273</ref>
}}
* Röding, P.F. 1798. ''Museum Boltenianum sive Catalogus cimeliorum e tribus regnis naturae quae olim collegerat Joa''. Hamburg : Trappii 199 pp. 
* Gray, J.E. 1826. Mollusca. pp. 474-496 in King, P.P. (ed.). ''Narrative of a Survey of the Intertropical and Western Coasts of Australia. Performed between the years 1818 and 1822; with Appendix B''. London : John Murray Vol. 2 viii 637 pp., 9 pls.
* Kiener, L.C. 1834. ''Spécies général et Iconographie des coquilles vivantes, comprenant la collection du Muséum d'histoire Naturelle de Paris, la collection de Lamarck, celle du Prince Massena (appartenant maintenant a M. le Baron B. Delessert) et les découvertes récentes des voyageurs.'' Paris : Rousseau Vol. 9. 
* Reeve, L.A. 1853. ''Monograph of the genus Nassa''. pls 1-25 in Reeve, L.A. (ed). Conchologia Iconica. London : L. Reeve Vol. 8.
* Cernohorsky W.O. (1981). ''Revision of the Australian and New Zealand Tertiary and Recent species of the family Nassariidae (Mollusca: Gastropoda).'' Records of the Auckland Institute and Museum 18:137-192.
* Cernohorsky, W.O. 1984. ''Systematics of the family Nassariidae (Mollusca: Gastropoda).'' Bulletin of the Auckland Institute and Museum. Auckland, New Zealand 14: 1-356
* Wilson, B. 1994. ''Australian Marine Shells. Prosobranch Gastropods.'' Kallaroo, WA : Odyssey Publishing Vol. 2 370 pp.

==外部連結==
{{Commonscat|Nassarius dorsatus}}
* [http://www.gastropods.com/5/Shell_3315.shtml Gastropods.com: ''Nassarius (Zeuxis) dorsatus'']

[[Category:织纹螺属|dorsatus]]