{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Coryphantha
| authority = (Engelm.) Lem.
| image = Nightblooming cactus.jpg
| image_caption = Coryphantha ramillosa
}}

'''凤梨球属'''（[[学名|学名]]：''Coryphantha''），是[[仙人掌科|仙人掌科]]下的一个属。

==下属物种==
* [[天司|天司]] ''Coryphantha bumamma''
* ''Coryphantha clavata'' (Scheidw.) Backeb.
* ''Coryphantha compacta'' (Engelm.) Britton & Rose
* [[狮子奋迅|狮子奋迅]] ''Coryphantha cornifera''
* ''Coryphantha delaetiana'' (Quehl) A. Berger
* ''Coryphantha delicata'' L. Bremer
* ''Coryphantha difficilis'' (Quehl) Orcutt
* [[钟鼠丸|钟鼠丸]](卡姬球)''Coryphantha durangensis'' (Ruenge) Britton & Rose
* [[针鼠丸|针鼠丸]] ''Coryphantha echinoidea'' (Quehl) Britton & Rose
* [[白斜子|白斜子]] ''Coryphantha echinus'' (Engelm.) Britton & Rose
* [[象牙球|象牙球]] ''Coryphantha elephantidens'' (Lem.) Lem.
* [[杨贵妃|杨贵妃]] ''Coryphantha erecta'' (Lem.) Lem.
* ''Coryphantha georgii'' Boed.
* ''Coryphantha glanduligera'' (Otto ex A. Dietr.) Lem.
* ''Coryphantha glassii'' Dicht & A. Lüthy
* ''Coryphantha gracilis'' L. Bremer & A. B. Lau
* ''Coryphantha guerkeana'' (Boed.) Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha hintoniorum'' Dicht & A. Lüthy
* ''Coryphantha jalpanensis'' F. G. Buchenau
* ''Coryphantha kracikii'' Halda, Chalupa & Kupcák
* ''Coryphantha longicornis ''Boed.
* [[大分丸|大分丸]] ''Coryphantha macromeris'' (Engelm.) Lem.
* [[魔象|魔象]] ''Coryphantha maiz-tablasensis'' Schwarz
* ''Coryphantha neglecta'' L. Bremer
* ''Coryphantha nickelsiae'' (K. Brandegee) Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha octacantha'' (DC.) Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha ottonis'' (Pfeiff.) Lem.
* [[金环蚀|金环蚀]] ''Coryphantha pallida'' Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha poselgeriana'' (A. Dietr.) Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha potosiana''
* ''Coryphantha pseudoechinus'' Boed.
* ''Coryphantha pseudonickelsiae'' Backeb.
* ''Coryphantha pulleineana'' (Backeb.) Glass
* [[菠萝拳|菠萝拳]] ''Coryphantha pycnacantha'' (Mart.) Lem.
* ''Coryphantha radians'' (DC.) Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha ramillosa'' Cutak
* ''Coryphantha recurvata'' (Engelm.) Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha retusa'' (Pfeiff.) Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha robustispina'' Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha salinensis'' (Poselg.) Dicht & A. Lüthy
* ''Coryphantha sulcata'' (Engelm.) Britton & Rose
* ''Coryphantha tripugionacantha'' A. B. Lau
* ''Coryphantha vaupeliana'' Boed.
* ''Coryphantha vogtherriana'' Werderm. & Boed.
* ''Coryphantha werdermannii'' Boed.
* ''Coryphantha wohlschlageri'' E. Holzeis

==参考資料==
{{reflist}}

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_凤梨球属|*]]
[[Category:_仙人掌科|F]]