'''男性研究'''，有時也被稱為男性氣概的研究，是一個跨學科的學術領域，專門討論關於男性，陽剛氣質，性別，和政治的主題。

相對於男性心理的概念，男性研究計劃和課程通常包括當代討論男人的權利，男性主義，女權主義理論，酷兒理論，母系社會，父權制，以及更普遍的男性和男子氣概的社會，歷史，和文化建設。他們經常討論的問題，圍繞著看到周圍男性特權，演變成更微妙的形式，而不是消失在當今時代。

美國男性研究協會（American Men's Studies Association ，AMSA）追踪有組織的男性研究領域至20世紀80年代初，以及學者的工作在參與反性別歧視的改變男性國家組織（National Organization for Changing Men，NOCM）下的被稱為男子的研究工作組（Men's Studies Task Group ，MSTG），其中包括馬丁·阿克爾，雪費布里斯，哈里·布羅德，山姆凡姆奧，馬丁費伯特，和邁克爾·梅斯納。然而，男性研究的類別於也早於NOCM，以及少數遍布了整個20世紀70年代在美國各地各高校任教的學者。

== 參見 ==

;作者
*Harry Brod
*[[R._W._Connell|R. W. Connell]]
*[[Warren_Farrell|Warren Farrell]]
*[[Michael_Flood|Michael Flood]]
*[[Joseph_Gelfer|Joseph Gelfer]]
*[[White_ribbon|Michael Kaufman]]
*[[Michael_Kimmel|Michael Kimmel]]
*[[Michael_Messner|Michael Messner]]
*Victor Seidler
*[[Christina_Hoff_Sommers|Christina Hoff Sommers]]
*[[Norah_Vincent|Norah Vincent]]
*[[Máirtín_Mac_an_Ghaill|Máirtín Mac an Ghaill]]

== 參考資料 ==
{{reflist}}

== 延伸閱讀 ==
'''文獻'''
*Flood, Michael. ''[http://mensbiblio.xyonline.net The Men's Bibliography]

'''學術期刊'''
*通論
**[[The_Journal_of_Men's_Studies|The Journal of Men's Studies]] (1992-)
**Men and Masculinities (formerly Masculinities, and before that Men’s Studies Review) (Sage)
**Psychology of Men & Masculinity (2000-)

*特定領域
**[[Fathering_(journal)|Fathering: A Journal of Theory and Research about Men as Parents]]
**[[International_Journal_of_Men's_Health|International Journal of Men's Health]] (2002-)
**[[Journal_of_Men,_Masculinities_and_Spirituality|Journal of Men, Masculinities and Spirituality]] (January 2007-)
** Journal of African American Males in Education (2010-)
**Journal of Men’s Health and Gender
**[[Thymos:_Journal_of_Boyhood_Studies|Thymos: Journal of Boyhood Studies]] (2007-)
**[[Culture,_Society_and_Masculinities|Culture, Society and Masculinities]] (2009-)
**[[Journal_of_Black_Masculinity|Journal of Black Masculinity]]

'''書目'''
*Adams, Rachel, and David Savran. (eds). (2002). The Masculinity Studies Reader. Malden, Massachusetts: Blackwell Publishers.
*Avramenko, Richard. (2011) Courage: The Politics of Life and Limb. Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press.
*Berger, Maurice, Brian Wallis, and Simon Watson. (eds). (1995). Constructing Masculinity. New York and London: Routledge.
*Blazina, Chris. (2003). The Cultural Myth of Masculinity. Westport, CT: Praeger
*Blazina, C. (2008). The Secret Lives of Men: What Men Want You to Know About Love, Sex, and Relationships. Deerfield, FL: HCI.
*Blazina, C., & Miller, D.  (Eds.).  (2010). An International Psychology of Men: Clinical Implications and Case Studies. New York: Routledge.
*Bordo, Susan. (1999). The Male Body: A New Look at Men in Public and Private. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
*Brod, Harry, and Michael Kaufman. (eds). (1994). Theorizing Masculinities. London: Sage.
*Buchbinder, David. (1994). Masculinities and Identities. Melbourne: Melbourne University Press.
*Buchbinder, David. (1998). Performance Anxieties: Re-producing Masculinity. Sydney: Allen & Unwin.
*Carver, Terrell (2004) Men in Political Theory. Manchester: Manchester University Press.
*[[Kenneth_Clatterbaugh|Clatterbaugh, Kenneth]]. (1997). Contemporary Perspectives on Masculinity: Men, Women, and Politics in Modern Society. 2nd edition, Colorado & Oxford: Westview Press.
*[[Raewyn_Connell|Connell, R.W.]] (1987). Gender and Power: Society, the Person and Sexual Politics. Sydney: Allen & Unwin.
*Connell, R.W. (1995). Masculinities. Sydney: Allen & Unwin.
*Connell, R.W. (2000). The Men and the Boys. Sydney: Allen & Unwin.
*Digby, Tom. (ed.). (1998). Men Doing Feminism. New York & London: Routledge.
*Edley, Nigel, and Margaret Wetherell. (1995). Men in Perspective: Practice, Power and Identity. London: Prentice-Hall.
*Edwards, Tim. (1993). Erotics and Politics: Gay Male Sexuality, Masculinity, and Feminism. New York: Routledge.
*Gardiner, Judith Kegan. (ed.). (2002). Masculinity Studies and Feminist Theory: New Directions. Columbia University Press.
*Haddad, Tony. (ed.). (1993). Men and Masculinities: A Critical Anthology. Toronto: Canadian Scholars’ Press.
*[[Jeff_Hearn|Hearn, Jeff]], and David H.J. Morgan (eds). (1990). Men, Masculinities and Social Theory. London: Unwin Hyman.
*Haywood, Chris, and Mairtin Mac an Ghaill (2003) Men and Masculinities: Theory, Research and Social Practice. Open University Press.
*Katz, Jackson (2006) The Macho Paradox: Why some men hurt women and how all men can help. Sourcebooks.
*[[Michael_Kimmel|Kimmel, Michael S.]], Jeff Hearn and R. W. Connell (eds.) (2005) Handbook of Studies on Men and Masculinities. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications.
*Kimmel, Michael S. (ed.). (1995). The Politics of Manhood: Profeminist Men Respond to the Mythopoetic Men’s Movement (and the Mythopoetic Leaders Answer). Philadelphia: Temple University Press.
*Kimmel, Michael S. (2000). The Gendered Society. New York & Oxford: Oxford University Press.
*Kimmel, Michael, and Amy Aronson (eds) (2003) Men and Masculinities: A social, cultural, and historical encyclopedia. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-Clio Press.
*Kimmel, Michael S., and Michael Messner. (eds). (1998). Men’s Lives. New York/Toronto: Macmillan/Maxwell (4th edition).
*Kupers, Terry A. (1993). Revisioning Men’s Lives: Gender, Intimacy, and Power. New York & London: Guilford Press.
*[[Máirtín_Mac_an_Ghaill|Mac an Ghaill, Mairtin]] (ed.). (1996). Understanding Masculinities: Social Relations and Cultural Arenas. Buckingham & Philadelphia: Open University Press.
*May, Larry. (1998). Masculinity and Morality. Ithaca & London: Cornell University Press.
*May, Larry, and Robert Strikwerda. (eds). (1992). Rethinking Masculinity: Philosophical Explorations in Light of Feminism. Maryland: Rowman & Littlefield.
*Messner, Michael A. (1997). Politics of Masculinities: Men in Movements. University of Southern California: Sage.
*Miedzian, Myriam. (1991). Boys Will Be Boys: Breaking the Link Between Masculinity and Violence. New York: Doubleday.
*[[Bob_Pease_(social_worker)|Pease, Bob.]] (1997). Men and Sexual Politics: Towards a Profeminist Practice. Adelaide: Dulwich Centre Publications.
*Pease, Bob. (2000). Recreating Men: Postmodern Masculinity Politics. London: Sage.
*Pease, Bob. (2002). Men and Gender Relations. Melbourne: Tertiary Press.
*Petersen, Alan. (1998). Unmasking the Masculine: ‘Men’ and ‘Identity’ in a Sceptical Age. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
*Pfeil, Fred. (1995). White Guys: Studies in Postmodern Domination and Difference. London & New York: Verso.
*Pringle, Keith. (1995). Men, Masculinities and Social Welfare. London: UCL Press.
*Reeser, Todd (2010). Masculinities in Theory. Malden, MA: Wylie-Blackwell.
*Schacht, Steven P., and Doris W. Ewing (2004) Feminism With Men: Bridging the gender gap. Roman and Littlefield.
*Segal, Lynne. (1990). Slow Motion: Changing Masculinities, Changing Men. London: Virago.
*Seidler, Victor J. (2005) Transforming Masculinities : Men, Cultures, Bodies, Power, Sex and Love. Routledge.
*Simpson, Mark. (1994). Male Impersonators: Men Performing Masculinity. New York: Routledge.
*Snodgrass, Jon. (ed.). (1977). A Book of Readings: For Men Against Sexism. Albion CA: Times Change Press.
*[[John_Stoltenberg|Stoltenberg, John.]] (1990). Refusing To Be a Man: Essays on Sex and Justice. CA & Suffolk: Fontana/Collins.
*Stoltenberg, John. (1993). The End of Manhood: A Book for Men of Conscience. New York: Dutton. (Also available from Baker & Taylor Replica Books, 1998)
*Synnott, Anthony. (2009). Re-Thinking Men: Heroes Villains and Victims. London: Ashgate.
*Whitehead, Stephen M. (2002). Men and Masculinities: Key Themes and New Directions. Cambridge: Polity Press.
*Whitehead, Stephen M., and Frank J. Barrett. (eds). (2001). The Masculinities Reader. Cambridge: Polity Press


== 外部連結 ==
*[http://mensstudies.org/ American Men Studies Association]
*[http://www.mensstudies.com Men's Studies Press]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20060501135951/http://www.boyhoodstudies.com/ Boyhood Studies]
*[http://mensbiblio.xyonline.net/ The Men's Bibliography], a comprehensive bibliography of writing on men, masculinities, gender, and sexualities, listing over 16,700 works.
*[http://www.jmmsweb.org Journal of Men, Masculinities and Spirituality]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20090106112808/http://mkpchicago.org/ The ManKind Project of Chicago], supporting men in leading meaningful lives of integrity, accountability, responsibility, and emotional intelligence

{{Feminism}}
{{Authority control}}
[[Category:男性與女性主義|Category:男性與女性主義]]
[[Category:女性主義|Category:女性主義]]
[[Category:男性主義|Category:男性主義]]