{{Speciesbox
 | taxon = Euspira pallida
 | display_parents = 3
 | authority = (Broderip & G. B. Sowerby I, 1829)  
 | synonyms_ref = {{r|WoRMS_140536}}
 | synonyms =
* ''Euspira canonica'' <small>Dall, 1919</small>
* ''Euspira politiana'' <small>Dall, 1919</small>
* ''Lunatia choshiensis'' <small>Tiba, 1985</small>
* ''Lunatia pallida'' <small>(Broderip & G. B. Sowerby I, 1829)</small>
* ''Natica borealis'' <small>Gray, 1839</small>
* ''Natica caurina'' <small>Gould, 1847</small>
* ''Natica groenlandica'' <small>Möller, 1842</small>
* ''Natica pallida'' <small>Broderip & G. B. Sowerby I, 1829</small> (original combination)
* ''Natica pusilla'' <small>Gould, 1841</small>
* ''Neverita politiana'' <small>(Dall, 1919)</small>
* ''Polinices (Lunatia) pallida'' <small>(Broderip & G. B. Sowerby I, 1829)</small>
* ''Polinices groenlandica'' [sic] (incorrect gender ending)
* ''Polinices groenlandicus'' <small>(Möller, 1842)</small>
* ''Polinices pallidus'' <small>(Broderip & Sowerby, 1829)</small>
}}

'''苍白镰玉螺'''{{r|zgdwz|page1=136}}（学名：''{{lang|la|Euspira pallida}}''）是一個[[捕食性|捕食性]][[海螺|海螺]]的[[物種|物種]]，屬於[[玉螺科|玉螺科]][[镰玉螺属|镰玉螺属]]的一种[[腹足綱|腹足綱]][[軟體動物|軟體動物]]{{r|zgdwz|page1=136|WoRMS_140536}}。

==型態描述==
殻長42 mm.<ref name="Welch 2010">Welch J. J. (2010). "The "Island Rule" and Deep-Sea Gastropods: Re-Examining the Evidence". ''[[PLoS_ONE|PLoS ONE]]'' '''5'''(1): e8776. {{doi|10.1371/journal.pone.0008776}}.</ref>

==分佈==
本物種主要分佈於[[歐洲|歐洲]]海域，包括[[北海|北海]]，[[北大西洋|北大西洋]]（從[[北極海|北極海]]到[[北美洲|北美洲]][[北卡羅萊納州|北卡羅萊納州]]海岸、[[波弗特海|波弗特海]]）。
但也見於[[中国大陆|中国大陆]]{{r|zgdwz|page1=135}}。

==棲息地==
棲息於0到2480米水深的海域<ref name="Welch 2010"/>。

==参考文献==
{{reflist|refs=
<ref name="zgdwz">{{cite book
 |url=http://www.ecsponline.com/goods.php?id=172430
 |title=中国动物志 无脊椎动物 |volume=第五十六卷 软体动物门 腹足纲 凤螺总科 玉螺总科
 |chapter=玉螺总科
 |editor=[[张素萍|张素萍]] |isbn=9787030473158 |publisher=[[科學出版社|科學出版社]] |language=zh-hans }}</ref>
<ref name="WoRMS_140536">{{WoRMS |id=140536
 |title=''Euspira pallida'' (Broderip & G. B. Sowerby I, 1829) 
 |date=2017-08-31 |access-date=2018-05-02 }}</ref>
}}
* Backeljau, T. (1986). ''Lijst van de recente mariene mollusken van België [List of the recent marine molluscs of Belgium].'' Koninklijk Belgisch Instituut voor Natuurwetenschappen: Brussels, Belgium. 106 pp. 
* Turgeon, D.D., et al. 1998. ''Common and scientific names of aquatic invertebrates of the United States and Canada''. American Fisheries Society Special Publication 26
* Gofas, S.; Le Renard, J.; Bouchet, P. (2001). Mollusca, in: Costello, M.J. et al. (Ed.) (2001). ''European register of marine species: a check-list of the marine species in Europe and a bibliography of guides to their identification''. Collection Patrimoines Naturels, 50: pp. 180–213
* Turgeon, D.; Quinn, J.F.; Bogan, A.E.; Coan, E.V.; Hochberg, F.G.; Lyons, W.G.; Mikkelsen, P.M.; Neves, R.J.; Roper, C.F.E.; Rosenberg, G.; Roth, B.; Scheltema, A.; Thompson, F.G.; Vecchione, M.; Williams, J.D. (1998). ''Common and scientific names of aquatic invertebrates from the United States and Canada: mollusks''. 2nd ed. American Fisheries Society Special Publication, 26. American Fisheries Society: Bethesda, MD (USA). {{ISBN|1-888569-01-8}}. IX, 526 + cd-rom pp. page(s): 84
* Trott, T.J. 2004. ''Cobscook Bay inventory: a historical checklist of marine invertebrates spanning 162 years.'' Northeastern Naturalist (Special Issue 2): 261 - 324.
* Kantor, Y.I. & Sysoev, A.V. (eds), 2005. ''Catalogue of molluscs of Russia and adjacent countries''. Moscow
* Kantor Yu.I. & Sysoev A.V. (2006) ''Marine and brackish water Gastropoda of Russia and adjacent countries: an illustrated catalogue''. Moscow: KMK Scientific Press. 372 pp. + 140 pls
* Petit R.E. (2009) ''George Brettingham Sowerby, I, II & III: their conchological publications and molluscan taxa''. Zootaxa 2189: 1–218
* Hasegawa K. (2009) ''Upper bathyal gastropods of the Pacific coast of northern Honshu, Japan, chiefly collected by R/V Wakataka-maru. In: T. Fujita (ed.), Deep-sea fauna and pollutants off Pacific coast of northern Japan.'' National Museum of Nature and Science Monographs 39: 225-383
* Torigoe K. & Inaba A. (2011) ''Revision on the classification of Recent Naticidae''. Bulletin of the Nishinomiya Shell Museum 7: 133 + 15 pp., 4 pls.

==外部連結==
{{Taxonbar|from=Q10797381}}
[[Category:镰玉螺属|pallida]]
{{Mollusc-stub}}