{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Calydna
| authority = Doubleday, 1847
| image = CramerAndStoll-uitlandsche kapellen vol. 4- pl 335.jpg
| image_caption = [[斜點蜆蝶|斜點蜆蝶]] (第一行)<br />''Calydna thersander''
| type_species = [[斜點蜆蝶|斜點蜆蝶]]<br />''Papilio thersander''
| type_species_authority = Stoll, [1780]
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共3個種團及19個物種，詳閱正文。
| synonyms =
}}

'''點蜆蝶屬'''（學名：'''''Calydna'''''）是[[蜆蝶科|蜆蝶科]][[蜆蝶亞科|蜆蝶亞科]]裡的一個[[屬|屬]]。共有3個種團及19個物種，分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2008. Calydna Doubleday 1847. Version 01 January 2008 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Calydna/105609/2008.01.01 in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }} {{en}}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
'''黃點蜆蝶種團'''
* [[藍點蜆蝶|藍點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna calamisa''
* [[黃點蜆蝶|黃點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna caieta''
* [[垂點蜆蝶|垂點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna charila''

'''斜點蜆蝶種團'''
* [[維納點蜆蝶|維納點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna venusta''
* ''Calydna stolata''
* [[鹿點蜆蝶|鹿點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna lusca''
* ''Calydna fissilisima''
* [[斜點蜆蝶|斜點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna thersander''
* ''Calydna jeannea''
* ''Calydna nicolayi''

'''彩點蜆蝶種團'''
* [[色點蜆蝶|色點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna cea'' = 玉米點蜆蝶 ''C. zea''
* ''Calydna pichita''
* [[星點蜆蝶|星點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna sturnula''
** = 翠點蜆蝶 ''C. euthria''
** = 波點蜆蝶 ''C. sinuata''
* [[小點蜆蝶|小點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna micra''
* [[坎點蜆蝶|坎點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna candace''
* [[彩點蜆蝶|彩點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna hiria''
* [[瑪瑙點蜆蝶|瑪瑙點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna carneia'' = 卡麗點蜆蝶 ''C. calyce''
* [[卡特點蜆蝶|卡特點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna catana''
* [[點蜆蝶|點蜆蝶]] ''Calydna cabira''

== 參見 ==
* ''[[Echydna|Echydna]]''
* ''[[Pseudotinea|Pseudotinea]]''
* [[瑟蜆蝶屬|瑟蜆蝶屬]]
* [[克里蜆蝶屬|克里蜆蝶屬]]

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Commons category|Calydna}}
* Hall, J. P. 2002 A Phylogenetic revision of Calydna and relatives (Lepidoptera: Riodinidae). Insect Syst. Evol. 33, 185-237.
* Hall, J. P. W. and Lamas, G. 2004. A new cloud forest species of Calydna (Lepidoptera: Riodinidae) from Peru, with a revised phylogeny of the C. hiria group. Proc. Entomol. Soc. Washington, 106(4), 733-738.
* {{aut|Lamas, G.}}, 2004, ''Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera; Checklist: Part 4A; Hesperioidea-Papilionoidea'' Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新, 周尧, 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768}}

== 外部連結 ==
* [http://ftp.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/riodinidae/calydna/ Calydna] - funet.fi

{{蜆蝶亞科}}
{{Taxonbar}}
[[Category:點蜆蝶屬|*]]
[[Category:蜆蝶亞科|D]]
[[Category:_1847年描述的分类群|D]]