{{Coord|-28.0074829|153.3446649|source:GoogleMaps|display=title}}
{{Infobox Australian Place | type = lga 
| name     = 黃金海岸市
| state    = 昆士蘭州
| image    = SEQ-Councils-GoldCoast.png
| imagesize= 200
| caption  = 黃金海岸市於[[昆士蘭州|昆士蘭州]]轄境圖
| pop      = 497,848
| pop_footnotes = （2008年人口調查）<ref>{{cite web |url = http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Products/3218.0~2007-08~Main+Features~Queensland?OpenDocument |title = Regional Population Growth, Australia, 2007–08 |author = Australian Bureau of Statistics |date = 23 April 2009 |accessdate = 30 September 2009 |archive-date = 2012-02-04 |archive-url = https://www.webcitation.org/65D0vpQ36?url=http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Products/3218.0~2007-08~Main+Features~Queensland?OpenDocument |dead-url = no }}</ref>
| density  = 366.6
| area     = 1358
| est      = 1948
| seat     = 衝浪者天堂
| mayor    = [[Ron_Clarke|Ron Clarke]]
| region   = 黃金海岸
| logo     = <!-- 檔案不存在 GCCC Logo.png -->
| url      = http://www.goldcoast.qld.gov.au
| stategov = Albert、Broadwater、Burleigh、Coomera、Currumbin、Gaven、Mermaid Beach、Mudgeeraba、Southport、Surfers Paradise
| fedgov   = Fadden、Forde、McPherson、Moncrieff
| near-nw  = [[洛根市|洛根]]
| near-n   = [[紅土市|紅土]]
| near-ne  = [[紅土市|紅土]]
| near-e   = ''[[太平洋|太平洋]]''
| near-w   = [[西斯寧緣區|西斯寧緣]]
| near-sw  = ''[[堤維德郡|堤維德]] ([[新南威爾斯州|NSW]])''
| near-s   = ''[[堤維德郡|堤維德]] ([[新南威爾斯州|NSW]])''
| near-se  = ''[[太平洋|太平洋]]''
}}

'''黃金海岸市'''（{{lang-en|City of Gold Coast}}）是[[澳大利亞|澳大利亞]]昆士蘭州東南部、統轄著[[黃金海岸市_(澳大利亞)|黃金海岸市]]的[[地方政府區域|地方政府]]，乃昆州第二大城市，市府員工逾2,500人；轄境和編制於1995年所底定。

<!--==History==
===Early history===
By the late 1870s, the [[Government_of_Queensland|Government of Queensland]] had become preoccupied with the idea of getting local residents to pay through rates for local services, which had become a massive cost to the colony and were undermaintained in many areas. The [[Thomas_McIlwraith|McIlwraith]] government initiated the ''Divisional Boards Act 1879'' which created a system of elected divisional boards covering most of Queensland. It was assented by the Governor on 2 October 1879, and on 11 November 1879, the Governor gazetted a list of 74 divisions which would come into existence. Four of these—[[Shire_of_Nerang|Nerang]], [[Shire_of_Coomera|Coomera]], [[Shire_of_Beenleigh|Beenleigh]] and [[Shire_of_Waterford|Waterford]]—were in the Gold Coast region. [[Southport,_Queensland|Southport]] was developed as both an administrative centre as well as a holiday destination with hotels and guesthouses to cater for visitors. Town dwellers had different needs to the rural landholders so Southport ratepayers lobbied the [[Colonialism|colonial]] government to create a separate Divisional Board so that rates monies raised by Southport landholders could be spent on town improvements. This resulted in the Southport Divisional Board on 14 July 1883.

On 31 March 1903, following the enactment of the ''Local Authorities Act 1902'', the divisions became shires. On 12 June 1914, the [[Town_of_Coolangatta|Town of Coolangatta]] was created from part of the Shire of Nerang, and on 12 April 1918, [[Town_of_Southport|Southport]] became a Town. 

===Development and growth===
On 9 December 1948, as part of a major reorganisation of local government in [[South_East_Queensland|South East Queensland]], an Order in Council renamed Southport to "Town of the South Coast" and amalgamated Coolangatta and coastal sections of the Shire of Nerang into the town's area, creating a narrow coastal strip. The same Order abolished all of the earlier Shires and amalgamated most of their area into the new [[Shire_of_Albert|Shire of Albert]], with the rest becoming part of the [[Shire_of_Beaudesert|Shire of Beaudesert]]. The Order came into effect on 10 June 1949, when the first elections were held for the new councils.

On 23 October 1958, the Town of the South Coast adopted the name of Gold Coast Town, and on 16 May 1959, the Town was proclaimed as a City by the Governor, having met the requirements for city status. Most of what is now regarded as the Gold Coast urban area was at that time located within the [[Shire_of_Albert|Shire of Albert]], which had its administrative offices in Nerang-Southport Road, [[Nerang,_Queensland|Nerang]].

===A regional authority===
On 21 November 1991, the [[Electoral_and_Administrative_Review_Commission|Electoral and Administrative Review Commission]], created two years earlier, produced its second report, and recommended that local government boundaries in [[South_East_Queensland|South East Queensland]] be rationalised with a view to creating stronger local authorities with a single community of interest. After much public debate, ''Local Government (Albert, Beaudesert and Gold Coast) Regulation 1994'' was gazetted on 16 December 1994, resulting in the amalgamation of the [[Shire_of_Albert|Shire of Albert]] into Gold Coast City at the 1995 local government elections. 

In 2007, as part of a report recommending massive amalgamation of local government in Queensland, the [[Local_Government_Reform_Commission|Local Government Reform Commission]] recommended that the [[Beenleigh,_Queensland|Beenleigh]]-[[Eagleby,_Queensland|Eagleby]] region on the Gold Coast's northern border be transferred to [[Logan_City|Logan City]], on the basis that a common community of interest existed and that planning of the South East Queensland urban footprint would be made more efficient by the change. The area to be excised was estimated by the Commission to have an area of {{convert|49|km2|sqmi|1|abbr=on}} and a population of 40,148. The change took effect at the 15 March 2008 local government elections.
-->

==市議會==
黃金海岸市議會有議席14座，分由14個選區，各區選舉出1名市議員，每屆任期4年；市長為直選。

<!--==Council Officer Accommodation==
Accommodation for Council officers has been an issue of some controversy since amalgamation of Gold Coast City with Albert Shire in 1996. The largest office is at Nerang but Council itself meets at the Evandale Office. Discussions about where a new combined central office have been ongoing with sites including Southport, Robina, Nerang, Evandale and Beenleigh all being investigated. Growth in staff numbers has meant existing Council owned office space is no longer sufficient and so commercial offices have been rented at Waterside West (Bundall) and at Varsity Lakes. The Robina NRL stadium was touted as a location for a new office tower for Council. Council resolved during October 2008 to construct a new highrise headquarters at Evandale, but the CEO is still promoting options at either Robina or Southport. The Mayor has suggested options to secure space in highrises that have stalled due to the [[Financial_crisis_of_2007–2008|credit crisis]]. In 2009 a new plan emerged to vacate existing office space at Nerang and Surfers Paradise and move to three new green rated buildings at [[Southport,_Queensland|Southport]] (next to the library) and at [[Robina,_Queensland|Robina]] and [[Coomera,_Queensland|Coomera]] (next to the stations).
-->
==主要市政建設==
* {{tsl|en|Gold Coast desalination project|黃金海岸海水處理廠}}
* {{tsl|en|Hinze Dam|興茲大壩建設案}}
* {{tsl|en|Gold Coast Oceanway|黃金海岸藍色公路}}
* {{tsl|en|Southport Broadwater Parklands|南港廣水公園}}
* {{tsl|en|Gold Coast Rapid Transit System|黃金海岸捷運系統}}
* {{tsl|en|Transport on the Gold Coast, Queensland#Ferry|黃金海岸渡船服務}}
* {{tsl|en|Rosser Park Regional Botanic Gardens|羅塞公園區域植物園建設}}
* Evandale Cultural Precinct including a [[greenbridge|greenbridge]] from Evandale Parklands to Chevron Island
* Mermaid Waters Library（美人魚水域圖書館）
* 黄金海岸活跃大未来 (Gold Coast Bold Future)
* {{tsl|en|Gold Coast Shoreline Management Plan|黃金海岸沿海管理計劃}}
* [[公共自行車|社區自行車租借計劃]]<ref>[http://www.goldcoast.qld.gov.au/tendersweb/Tender.aspx?TenderID=435 Gold Coast Community Bike Hire] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110609180047/http://www.goldcoast.qld.gov.au/tendersweb/Tender.aspx?TenderID=435 |date=2011-06-09 }}</ref>

== 參見 ==
{{Portal box|澳大利亚}}
* [[黃金海岸市_(澳大利亞)|黃金海岸]]
* {{tsl|en|List of Gold Coast suburbs|黃金海岸市轄區}}
* {{tsl|en|Gold Coast Art Centre|黃金海岸藝術中心}}
* {{tsl|en|Gold Coast City Art Gallery|黃金海岸市立美術館}}

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部連結 ==
* [http://www.goldcoast.qld.gov.au/ 黃金海岸市政府官方網站]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20091028044120/http://www.goldcoast.qld.gov.au/t_standard2.aspx?pid=1442 黃金海岸市政府沿革]
* [http://www.businessgc.com.au/ 商業黃金海岸] {{Wayback|url=http://www.businessgc.com.au/ |date=20090726174125 }}

{{-}}
{{LGAs SEQ}}
{{Local Government Areas of Queensland}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Gold Coast}}
[[Category:黄金海岸|Category:黄金海岸]]
[[Category:昆士蘭州地方政府區域|Category:昆士蘭州地方政府區域]]
[[Category:澳大利亞市政府|Category:澳大利亞市政府]]
[[Category:1948年建立的聚居地|Category:1948年建立的聚居地]]
[[Category:1948年澳大利亞建立|Category:1948年澳大利亞建立]]