{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{AutoTaxobox
| fossil_range ={{fossilrange|10|0|earliest=15}}新近紀[[中新世|中新世]]至今<ref name=t2020>Toussaint, E. F., Chiba, H., Yago, M., Dexter, K. M., Warren, A. D., Storer, C., ... & Kawahara, A. Y. (2020). Afrotropics on the wing: phylogenomics and historical biogeography of awl and policeman skippers. Systematic Entomology. {{en}}</ref>
| image = Two-pip Policeman (Coeliades pisistratus).jpg
| image caption = [[庇神豎翅弄蝶|庇神豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. pisistratus''
| taxon =Coeliades
| authority = Hübner, 1818
| type_species = [[豎翅弄蝶|豎翅弄蝶]]<br>''Papilio forestan''
| type_species_authority = Stoll, 1782
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 
共18種，詳見正文。
| synonyms =
* ''Pyrrhiades'' <sub>Lindsey & Miller, 1965</sub>
* ''Rhopalocampta'' <small>Wallengren 1857</small>
}}

'''豎翅弄蝶屬'''（[[學名|學名]]：{{lang|la|''Coeliades''}}）是[[弄蝶科|弄蝶科]][[豎翅弄蝶亞科|豎翅弄蝶亞科]]中的一個[[屬|屬]]。物種分佈於[[埃塞俄比亞界|埃塞俄比亞界]]<ref name=t2020/><ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. and Andrew Warren. 2009. Coeliades Hübner 1818. The Policemen. Version 17 June 2009 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Coeliades/94262/2009.06.17 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Coeliades/94262/2009.06.17 |date=20180101140022 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }} {{en}}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* ''C. aeschylus''
* [[安神豎翅弄蝶|安神豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. anchises''
* [[彼豎翅弄蝶|彼豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. bixana''
* ''C. bocagii''
* [[藍豎翅弄蝶|藍豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. chalybe''
* ''C. ernesti''
* ''C. fervida''
* ''C. fidia''
* [[豎翅弄蝶|豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. forestan''
* [[筆黃豎翅弄蝶|筆黃豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. hanno''
* [[黑豎翅弄蝶|黑豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. keithloa''
* [[麗波豎翅弄蝶|麗波豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. libeon''
* ''C. lorenzo''
* ''C. lucagus''
* ''C. pansa''
* [[庇神豎翅弄蝶|庇神豎翅弄蝶]] ''C. pisistratus''
* ''C. rama''
* ''C. sejuncta''

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考 ==
* Ackery PR, Smith CR, and Vane-Wright RI eds. 1995. Carcasson's African butterflies. Canberra: CSIRO.
* Larsen, T. B. 2005 Butterflies of West Africa. Stenstrup, Denmark: Apollo Books.

== 外部連結 ==
* {{Commonscat-inline| Coeliades}}
* {{Wikispecies-inline| Coeliades}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20180101194510/http://www.nic.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/hesperioidea/hesperiidae/coeliadinae/coeliades/ Coeliades] - funet.fi {{en}}
{{Taxonbar|from=Q1307219}}

[[Category:豎翅弄蝶屬|Category:豎翅弄蝶屬]]
[[Category:豎翅弄蝶亞科|Category:豎翅弄蝶亞科]]