{{expand|time=2011-03-10T09:43:43+00:00}}
{{expert|time=2011-03-10T09:43:43+00:00}}
{{Infobox Language family
|name        = 德内语支
|map         = Na-Dene langs.png
|mapsize=200px
|mapcation=[[納－德內語系|納－德內語系]]的分佈（額外添加了[[特林吉特語|特林吉特語]]和[[埃雅克語|埃雅克語]]）
|region      = [[北美洲|北美洲]]
|familycolor = Na-Dené
|fam1      = [[德內－葉尼塞語門|德內－葉尼塞語門]] (建議中)
|fam2      = [[納－德內語系|納－德內語系]]
|fam3      =  [[阿薩巴斯卡－埃雅克語族|阿薩巴斯卡－埃雅克語族]]
|child1      =  [[北德內語支|北德內語支]]
|child2      =  [[太平洋沿岸阿薩巴斯卡語支|太平洋沿岸阿薩巴斯卡語支]]
|child3      =  [[南德內語支|南德內語支]]
|linglist=
|iso5=ath
|iso6=
}}

'''德内语支'''或称'''阿萨巴斯卡语支'''（Athabaskan、Athabascan、Dene、Athapascan、Athapaskan）是[[北美|北美]]大陆一系列[[原住民|原住民]]语言的统称，阿萨巴斯卡语系主语言与其他一些语言被归入[[纳-德内语系|纳-德内语系]]。阿萨巴斯卡语系为北美第二大语系。阿萨巴斯卡语系包含31种语言，[[哥威迅语|哥威迅语]]、[[斯拉维语|斯拉维语]]等语言被列为加拿大西北领地的[[官方语言|官方语言]]。

==參見==
*[[塔穹語|塔穹語]]（Tutchone language）

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
* Boas, Franz. 1917. ''Grammatical notes on the language of the Tlingit Indians.'' (University Museum Anthropological Publications 8.1). Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania.
* [http://www.mip.berkeley.edu/cilc/bibs/toc.html California Indian Library Collections Project]. [http://www.mip.berkeley.edu/cilc/bibs/athapascan.html California Athapaskan Bibliography]
* Campbell, Lyle. 1997. ''American Indian languages: The historical linguistics of Native America''. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-509427-1.
* Cook, Eung-Do. 1981. Athabaskan linguistics: Proto-Athapaskan phonology. ''Annual Review of Anthropology'' 10. 253–273.
* Cook, Eung-Do. 1992. Athabaskan languages. In William Bright (ed.), ''International encyclopedia of linguistics'', 122–128. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  ISBN 0-19-505196-3.
* Cook, Eung-Do & Keren Rice. 1989. Introduction. In Eung-Do Cook & Keren Rice (eds.), ''Athapaskan linguistics: Current perspectives on a language family'', 1–61. (Trends in Linguistics, State-of-the-art Reports 15). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. ISBN 0-89925-282-6.
* Golla, Victor. 2011. ''California Indian Ianguages''. Berkeley: University of California Press.
* Hoijer, Harry. 1938. The southern Athapaskan languages. ''American Anthropologist'' 40(1). 75–87.
* Hoijer, Harry. 1956. The Chronology of the Athapaskan languages. ''International Journal of American Linguistics'' 22(4). 219–232.
* Hoijer, Harry. 1963. The Athapaskan languages. In Harry Hoijer (ed.), ''Studies in the Athapaskan languages'', 1–29. Berkeley: University of California Press.
* Hoijer, Harry (ed.). 1963. ''Studies in the Athapaskan languages''. (University of California publications in linguistics 29). Berkeley: University of California Press.
* Hoijer, Harry. 1971. The position of the Apachean languages in the Athpaskan stock. In Keith H. Basso & M. E. Opler (eds.), ''Apachean culture history and ethnology'', 3–6. (Anthropological papers of the University of Arizona 21). Tucson: University of Arizona Press.
* Hymes, Dell H. 1957. A note on Athapaskan glottochronology. ''International Journal of American Linguistics'' 23(4). 291–297.
* Kari, James. 1989. Affix positions and zones in the Athapaskan verb complex: Ahtna and Navajo. ''International Journal of American Linguistics'' 55(4). 424-454.
* Kari, James, James A. Fall, & Shem Pete. 2003. ''Shem Pete’s Alaska: The territory of the Upper Cook Inlet Denaʼina.'' Fairbanks, AK: University of Alaska Press. ISBN 1-889963-56-9 (cloth); ISBN 1-889963-57-7 (pbk.).
* Kari, James and Ben A. Potter. (2010). ''The Dene–Yeniseian Connection,'' ed. by J. Kari and B. Potter, 1–24. ''Anthropological Papers of the University of Alaska'', new series, vol. 5. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Fairbanks, Department of Anthropology.
* Kibrik, Andrej A. 1993. Transitivity increase in Athabaskan languages. In Bernard Comrie & Maria Polinsky (eds.), ''Causatives and Transitivity'', 47–68. (Studies in Language Comparison Series 23). Philadelphia: John Benjamins. ISBN 978-1-55619-375-0 (hbk).
* Kibrik, Andrej A. 1996. Transitivity decrease in Navajo and Athabaskan: Actor-affecting propositional derivations. In [[Eloise_Jelinek|Eloise Jelinek]], Sally Midgette, [[Keren_Rice|Keren Rice]], & Leslie Saxon (eds.) ''Athabaskan language studies: Essays in honor of Robert W. Young'', 259–304. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico. ISBN 0-8263-1705-7 (cloth).
* Kibrik, Andrej A. 2001. A typologically oriented portrait of the Athabaskan language family. Presented at ALT-IV, Santa Barbara, CA.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1964. The proto-Athapaskan–Eyak and the problem of Na-Dene, I: The phonology. ''International Journal of American Linguistics'' 30(2). 118–131.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1965. The proto-Athapaskan–Eyak and the problem of Na-Dene, II: The morphology. ''International Journal of American Linguistics'' 31(1). 18–28.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1968. Noun-classification systems in the Athapaskan, Eyak, Tlingit and Haida verbs. ''International Journal of American Linguistics'' 34(3). 194–203.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1969. ''On the classification in the Athapascan, Eyak, and the Tlingit verb''. Baltimore: Waverly Press, Indiana University.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1973. Na-Dene. In Thomas A. Sebeok (ed.), ''Linguistics in North America'', 903–978. (Current trends in linguistics 10). The Hague: Mouton. (Reprinted as Krauss 1976).
* Krauss, Michael E. 1976''a''. Na-Dene. In Thomas A. Sebeok (ed.), ''Native languages of the Americas'', 283–358. New York: Plenum. Reprint of Krauss 1973.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1976''b''. Proto-Athabaskan–Eyak fricatives and the first person singular. Unpublished manuscript.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1979. Na-Dene and Eskimo. In Lyle Campbell & Marianne Mithun (eds.), ''The languages of native America: Historical and comparative assessment''. Austin: University of Texas Press.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1979. Athabaskan tone. Unpublished manuscript. Published with revisions as Krauss 2005.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1981. ''On the history and use of comparative Athapaskan linguistics''. Unpublished manuscript.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1986. Edward Sapir and Athabaskan linguistics. In W. Cowan, M. Foster, & K. Koerner (eds.), ''New perspectives in language, culture, and personality'', 147–190. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
* Krauss, Michael E. 1987. ''The name Athabaskan''. In Peter L. Corey (ed.), ''Faces, Voices & Dreams: A celebration of the centennial of the Sheldon Jackson Museum, Sitka, Alaska, 1888–1988'', 105–08. Sitka, AK: Division of Alaska State Museums and the Friends of the Alaska State Museum. [http://www.uaf.edu/anlc/docs/krauss_name_athabaskan.pdf PDF version available from the Alaska Native Language Center].
* Krauss, Michael E. 2005. Athabaskan tone.  In Sharon Hargus & Keren Rice (eds.), ''Athabaskan Prosody'', 51–136. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. Revision of unpublished manuscript dated 1979.
* Krauss, Michael E. & Victor Golla. 1981. Northern Athapaskan languages. In J. Helm (ed.), ''Subarctic'', 67–85. (Handbook of North American Indians 6). Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution.
* Krauss, Michael E. & Jeff Leer. 1981. ''Athabaskan, Eyak, and Tlingit sonorants''. (Alaska Native Language Center research papers 5). Fairbanks, AK: University of Alaska, Alaska Native Language Center.
* Leer, Jeff. 1979. ''Proto-Athabaskan verb stem variation I: Phonology''. (Alaska Native Language Center research papers 1). Fairbanks, AK: Alaska Native Language Center.
* Leer, Jeff. 1982. ''Navajo and comparative Athabaskan stem list''. Unpublished manuscript. [http://www.uaf.edu/anla/item.xml?id=CA965L1982 ANLA CA965L1982]
* Leer, Jeff. 1990. Tlingit: A portmanteau language family? In Philip Baldi (ed.), ''Linguistic change and reconstruction methodology'', 73–98. (Trends in Linguistics: Studies and monographs 45). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-011908-4.
* Leer, Jeff. 2005. How stress shapes the stem-suffix complex in Athabaskan. In Sharon Hargus & Keren Rice (eds.), ''Athabaskan Prosody'', 278–318. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
* Leer, Jeff. 2008. Recent advances in AET comparison. [http://www.uaf.edu/anla/item.xml?id=CA965L2008b ANLA CA965L2008b]
* Leer, Jeff. 2010. The Palatal Series in Athabascan-Eyak-Tlingit, with an Overview of the Basic Sound Correspondences.  In ''The Dene–Yeniseian Connection'', ed. by J. Kari and B. Potter, XX-XX. Anthropological Papers of the University of Alaska, new series, vol. 5. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Fairbanks, Department of Anthropology.
* Mithun, Marianne. 1999. ''The languages of Native North America''. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-23228-7 (hbk); ISBN 0-521-29875-X (pbk).
* Naish, Constance & Gillian Story. 1973. ''Tlingit verb dictionary''. Fairbanks, AK: Alaska Native Language Center. ISBN 0-933769-25-3.
* Rice, Keren. 1997. A reexamination of Proto-Athabaskan y. ''Anthropological Linguistics'' 39(3). 423–426.
* Rice, Keren. 2000. ''Morpheme order and semantic scope: Word formation in the Athapaskan verb''. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-58354-1 (hbk); ISBN 978-0-521-02450-1 (pbk).
* Sapir, Edward. 1915. The Na-Dene languages, a preliminary report. ''American Anthropologist'' 17(3). 534–558.
* Sapir, Edward. 1916. ''Time perspective in aboriginal American culture: A study in method''. (Anthropology series 13; Memoirs of the Canadian Geological Survey 90). Ottawa: Government Printing Bureau.
* Sapir, Edward. 1931. The concept of phonetic law as tested in primitive languages by Leonard Bloomfield. In S. A. Rice (ed.), ''Methods in social science: A case book'', 297–306. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
* Sapir, Edward. 1936. Linguistic evidence suggestive of the northern origin of the Navaho. ''American Anthropologist'' 38(2). 224–235.
* Sapir, Edward, & Victor Golla. 2001. ''Hupa Texts, with Notes and Lexicon.'' In Victor Golla & Sean O'Neill (eds.), ''Collected Works of Edward Sapir,'' vol. 14, ''Northwest California Linguistics'', 19-1011.  Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
* Saville-Troike, Muriel. 1985. On variable data and phonetic law: A case from Sapir's Athabaskan correspondences. ''International Journal of American Linguistics'' 51(4). 572–574.
* Sturtevant, William C. (ed.). 1978–present. ''Handbook of North American Indians'', vols. 1-20. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution. Vols. 1–3, 16, 18–20 not yet published.
* Vajda, Edward. 2010. A Siberian Link with Na-Dene Languages. In ''The Dene–Yeniseian Connection'', ed. by J. Kari and B. Potter, 33-99. Anthropological Papers of the University of Alaska, new series, vol. 5. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Fairbanks, Department of Anthropology.
* Vajda, Edward J. (2011). [http://oxfordbibliographiesonline.com/view/document/obo-9780199772810/obo-9780199772810-0064.xml?rskey=SDjGCQ&result=9&q='' Oxford Bibliographies Online: Dene-Yeniseian Languages].
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
{{Wikisource1911Enc|Athapascan}}
* [http://www.mip.berkeley.edu/cilc/bibs/athapascan.html Athapascan Bibliography]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20110827113819/http://ling.ucsc.edu/Jorge/fernald.html Athabaskan Satellites & ASL Ion-Morphs]
* [http://www.uaf.edu/anlc/ Alaska Native Language Center]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20050602090721/http://www.yukoncollege.yk.ca/ynlc/ Yukon Native Language Center]
* [http://billabbie.com/calath/index.html California Athapascan]
*{{Cite web
| last = Don Macnaughtan
| title = Bibliography and Discography on the Chetco, Tututni and other Athapaskans of Southwest Oregon
| format = Lane Community College Library
| accessdate = 2012-09-04
| url = http://www.lanecc.edu/library/don/athapaskan.htm
}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20100601065750/http://listserv.linguistlist.org/archives/athapbasckan-l.html ATHAPBASCKAN-L mailing list for Athabaskan linguistics]

[[Category:阿萨巴斯卡语支|]]