'''汉-高加索语系'''，亦作'''德内-高加索语系'''，或譯作'''達內-高加索語系'''，是一个假設的[[大语系|大语系]]，包括[[汉藏语系|汉藏语系]]、[[布鲁夏斯基语|布鲁夏斯基语]]、[[叶尼塞语系|叶尼塞语系]]、[[北高加索語系|北高加索語系]]以及北美的[[纳-德内语系|纳-德内语系]]。其存在还处在争议中，因为大部分的研究在20世纪90年代才开始展开。有时[[苏美尔语|苏美尔语]]和[[阿尔冈昆-瓦卡希语系|阿尔冈昆-瓦卡希语系]]也被归入其中。

== 語系樹建議 ==
=== 斯塔罗斯金的觀點 ===
根據[[俄罗斯|俄罗斯]]语言学家[[斯塔罗斯金|斯塔罗斯金]]及他的同事在《[[巴別塔計劃|巴別塔計劃]]》的共同研究認為，[[德內-高加索語系|德內-高加索語系]]的分支語言大約在以下日子以[[语言年代学|修订语言年代学]]來估算裡分化<ref>參看：[[#refStarTree|The preliminary phylogenetic tree according to the Tower of Babel Project]]</ref>：

:1. '''得内-高加索语系''' (公元前8700年)
::1.1. [[納-達尼語系|納-得內語系]]
::1.2. 漢-瓦斯科尼亞語系 (Sino-Vasconic languages，公元前7900年)
:::1.2.1. 瓦斯科尼亞語系 (Vasconic，見下段)
:::1.2.2. '''漢-高加索語系''' (公元前6200年)
::::1.2.2.1. [[布鲁夏斯基语|布鲁夏斯基语]]
::::1.2.2.2. 高加索-漢-葉尼塞語系 (公元前5900年)
:::::1.2.2.2.1. [[北高加索語系|北高加索語系]]
:::::1.2.2.2.2. 漢-葉尼塞語系 (公元前5100年)
::::::1.2.2.2.2.1. [[葉尼塞語系|葉尼塞語系]]
::::::1.2.2.2.2.2. [[漢藏語系|漢藏語系]]

=== Bengtson的觀點 ===
John D. Bengtson把[[巴斯克語|巴斯克語]]、[[高加索語|高加索語]]及[[布魯夏斯基語|布魯夏斯基語]]組合成為[[大高加索語系|大高加索語系]](Macro-Caucasian family)<ref>見 [[#refBeng97a|Bengtson 1997a]]</ref>。根據他的講法，現時要再加入其他語系為時尚早，因為研究尚未成熟。不過，他留意到[[蘇美爾語|蘇美爾語]]在地理上與其西支及東支分享着相同的[[等語線|等語線]]<ref>見 [[#refBeng97b|Bengtson 1997b]]</ref>。

:1. '''得内-高加索语系'''（'''Dené-Caucasian'''）
::1.1. 大高加索語系（The Macro-Caucasian family）
:::1.1.1. 瓦斯科尼亞語系（[[巴斯克語|巴斯克語]]）
:::1.1.2. 北高加索語系
:::1.1.3. [[布鲁夏斯基语|布鲁夏斯基语]]（Burushaski）
::1.2. [[蘇美爾語|蘇美爾語]]（Sumerian?）
::1.3. [[汉藏语系|汉藏语系]]（Sino-Tibetan）
::1.4. [[叶尼塞语系|叶尼塞语系]]（Yeniseian）
::1.5. [[納-達尼語系|納-德內語系]]（Na-Dené）

== 參看 ==
* [[德內-葉尼塞語系|德內-葉尼塞語系]]

== 註釋 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考書目 ==
<div class="references-small">

*<cite id="refBene72">BENEDICT, Paul K., 1972. Sino-Tibetan: A Conspectus: 103ff; Ed. by J. A. Matisoff. Cambridge University Press.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng08">{{citation | first=John D. | last=BENGTSON | author-link = John Bengtson | contribution = Materials for a Comparative Grammar of the Dene-Caucasian (Sino-Caucasian) Languages. | contribution-url = http://starling.rinet.ru/Texts/dene_gr.pdf | title = Aspects of Comparative Linguistics | volume = 3 | place = [[Moscow|Moscow]] | publisher = RSUH Publishers | year = 2008 | pages = 45–118}}</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng04">BENGTSON, John D., 2004. "Some features of Dene-Caucasian phonology (with special reference to Basque)." In Cahiers de l'Institut de Linguistique de Louvain (CILL): 33–54.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng03">BENGTSON, John D., 2003. "Notes on Basque Comparative Phonology." Mother Tongue 8: 21–39.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng02">BENGTSON, John D., 2002. "The Dene-Caucasian noun prefix *s-." In The Linguist's Linguist: A Collection of Papers in Honour of Alexis Manaster Ramer, ed. by F. Cavoto, pp. 53–57. Munich: LINCOM Europa.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng99a">BENGTSON, John D., 1999a. "Review of R.L. Trask, The History of Basque." In Romance Philology 52 (Spring): 219–224.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng99b">BENGTSON, John D., 1999b. "Wider genetic affiliations of the Chinese language." Journal of Chinese Linguistics 27 (1): 1–12.</cite>*<cite id="refBeng94">BENGTSON, John D., 1994. "Edward Sapir and the ‘Sino-Dene’ Hypothesis." Anthropological Science (Tokyo) 102: 207-230.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng98">BENGTSON, John D., 1998. "Caucasian and Sino-Tibetan: A Hypothesis of S. A. Starostin." General Linguistics, Vol. 36, no. 1/2, 1998 (1996). Pegasus Press, University of North Carolina, Asheville, North Carolina.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng97a">BENGTSON, John D., 1997a. "Ein Vergleich von Buruschaski und Nordkaukasisch [A comparison of B. and North Caucasian]." Georgica 20: 88–94.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng97b">BENGTSON, John D., 1997b. "The riddle of Sumerian: A Dene-Caucasic language?" Mother Tongue 3: 63–74.</cite>
*<cite id="refBeng96">BENGTSON, John D., 1996. "A Final (?) Response to the Basque Debate in Mother Tongue 1." (see External links below)</cite>
*<cite id="refBerg98">BERGER, Hermann, 1998. Die Burushaski-Sprache von Hunza und Nager. 3 volumes. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.</cite>
*<cite id="refBerg74">BERGER, Hermann, 1974. Das Yasin-Burushaski (Werchikwar). Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.</cite>
*<cite id="refBomh97">[[Allan_R._Bomhard|BOMHARD, Allan R.]], 1997. "On the origin of Sumerian." Mother Tongue 3: 75-93.</cite>
*<cite id="refCatf77">CATFORD, J. C., 1977. "Mountain of Tongues: The languages of the Caucasus." Annual Review of Anthropology 6: 283-314.</cite>
*<cite id="refDiak97">DIAKONOFF, Igor M., 1997. "External Connections of the Sumerian Language." Mother Tongue 3: 54-63.</cite>
*<cite id="refEnri04">ENRICO, John. 2004. Toward Proto–Na-Dene. Anthropological Linguistics 46(3).229–302.</cite>
*<cite id="refHand98">{{cite paper | last = HANDEL | first = Zev Joseph | title = The Medial Systems of Old Chinese and Proto-Sino-Tibetan | version = [[Ph._D.|Ph. D.]] [[thesis|thesis]] | publisher = University of California at Berkeley | year = 1998 | url = http://faculty.washington.edu/zhandel/#publications | format = [[PDF|PDF]] | accessdate = 2008-01-28}}</cite>
*<cite id="refMor96">MORVAN, Michel, 1996. Les origines linguistiques du basque. Bordeaux University Press.</cite>
*<cite id="refChir85">CHIRIKBA, Vyacheslav A., 1985. "Баскский и северокавказские языки [Basque and the North Caucasian languages]." In Древняя Анатолия [Ancient Anatolia], pp. 95-105. Moscow: Nauka.</cite>
*<cite id="refNiko91">NIKOLA(Y)EV, Sergei L., 1991. "Sino-Caucasian Languages in America." In Shevoroshkin (1991), pp. 42–66.</cite>
*<cite id="refPeir96">PEIROS, Ilia, and STAROSTIN, Sergei A., 1996. "A comparative vocabulary of five Sino-Tibetan languages". University of Melbourne Department of Linguistics and Applied Linguistics.</cite>
*<cite id="refPinn90a">PINNOW, Heinz-Jürgen (1990a). Die Na-Dene-Sprachen im Lichte der Greenberg-Klassifikation [The Na-Dene languages in the light of the Greenberg classification]. Nortorf: Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft. (Abhandlungen, Heft 64)</cite>
*<cite id="refPinn90b">PINNOW, Heinz-Jürgen (1990b) (in two parts). Vogelnamen des Tlingit und Haida. Materialien zu ihrer sprachhistorischen Erforschung sowie Auflistung der Vogelarten von Alaska [Bird names of Tlingit and Haida. Materials to their language-historical investigation and list of the bird species of Alaska]. Nortorf: Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft. (Abhandlungen, Hefte 67–68)</cite>
*<cite id="refPinn88">PINNOW, Heinz-Jürgen (1988). Verwandtschafts- und andere Personenbezeichnungen im Tlingit und Haida: Versuch ihrer sprachhistorischen Deutung [Kinship and other person terms in Tlingit and Haida: attempt at their language-historical interpretation]. Nortorf: Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft. (Abhandlungen, Heft 62)</cite>
*<cite id="refPinn86a">PINNOW, Heinz-Jürgen (1986a). Die Zahlwörter des Haida in sprachvergleichender Sicht [The numerals of Haida in comparative view]. Nortorf: Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft. (Abhandlungen, Heft 47)</cite>
*<cite id="refPinn86b">PINNOW, Heinz-Jürgen (1986b). Säugetiernamen des Haida und Tlingit: Materialien zu ihrer historischen Erforschung [Mammal names of Haida and Tlingit: materials to their historical investigation]. Nortorf: Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft. (Abhandlungen, Heft 50)</cite>
*<cite id="refPinn85a">PINNOW, Heinz-Jürgen (1985a). Sprachhistorische Untersuchung einiger Tiernamen im Haida (Fische, Stachelhäuter, Weichtiere, Gliederfüßer, u.a.) [Language-historical investigation of some animal names in Haida (fish, echinoderms, mollusks, arthropods, and others]. Nortorf: Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft. (Abhandlungen, Heft 39)</cite>
*<cite id="refPinn85b">PINNOW, Heinz-Jürgen (1985b) (in four parts). Das Haida als Na-Dene-Sprache [Haida as a Na-Dene language]. Nortorf: Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft. (Abhandlungen, Hefte 43–46)</cite>
*<cite id="refRubi02">RUBICZ, R., MELVIN, K. L., CRAWFORD, M.H. 2002. Genetic Evidence for the phylogenetic relationship between Na-Dene and Yeniseian speakers. Human Biology, Dec 1 2002 74 (6) 743-761.</cite>
*<cite id="refRuhl01a">RUHLEN, Merritt, 2001a. "Il Dene-caucasico: una nuova famiglia linguistica." Pluriverso 2: 76–85.</cite>
*<cite id="refRuhl01b">RUHLEN, Merritt, 2001b. “Taxonomic Controversies in the Twentieth Century,” in New Essays on the Origin of Language, ed. by Jürgen Trabant and Sean Ward, Berlin, Mouton de Gruyter, 197–214.</cite>
*<cite id="refRuhl98a">RUHLEN, Merritt, 1998a. "Dene-Caucasian: A New Linguistic Family," in The Origins and Past of Modern Humans—Towards Reconciliation, ed. by Keiichi Omoto and Phillip V. Tobias, Singapore: World Scientific, 231–46.</cite>
*<cite id="refRuhl98b">RUHLEN, Merritt, 1998b. "The Origin of the Na-Dene." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the U.S.A. 95: 13994–13996.</cite>
*<cite id="refRuhl98c">RUHLEN, Merritt, 1998c. "The Origin of the Na-Dene." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 95: 13994–96.</cite>
*<cite id="refRuhl97">RUHLEN, Merritt. 1997. "Une nouvelle famille de langues: le déné-caucasien," Pour la Science (Dossier, October), 68–73.</cite>
*<cite id="refSchm94">SCHMIDT, Karl Horst, 1994. "Class Inflection and Related Categories in the Caucasus." In Non-Slavic Languages of the USSR, ed. by H. I. Aronson, pp. 185-192. Columbus, OH: Slavica.</cite>
*<cite id="refSchu92">SCHULZE-FÜRHOFF, Wolfgang, 1992. "How Can Class Markers Petrify? Towards a Functional Diachrony of Morphological Subsystems in the East Caucasian Languages." In The Non-Slavic Languages of the USSR: Linguistic Studies, Second Series, ed. by H. I. Aronson, pp. 183-233. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.</cite>
*<cite id="refShev04">SHEVOROSHKIN, Vitaliy V., 2004. "Proto-Salishan and Proto-North-Caucasian Consonants: a few cognate sets." in Nostratic Centennial Conference: the Pécs Papers. ed. by. I. Hegedűs & P. Sidwell, pp. 181–191. Pécs: Lingua Franca Group.</cite>
*<cite id="refShev03">SHEVOROSHKIN, Vitaliy V., 2003. "Salishan and North Caucasian." Mother Tongue 8: 39–64.</cite>
*<cite id="refStar89">STAROSTIN, Sergei A. and Orel, V., 1989. "Etruscan and North Caucasian." Explorations in Language Macrofamilies. Ed. V. Shevoroshkin. Bochum Publications in Evolutionary Cultural Semiotics. 23. Bochum.</cite>
*<cite id="refShev99">SHEVOROSHKIN, Vitaliy V., 1999 "Nostratic and Sino-Caucasian: two ancient language phyla." In From Neanderthal to Easter Island (Festschrift W. W. Schuhmacher), ed. by N. A. Kirk & P. J. Sidwell. pp. 44–74. Melbourne.</cite>
*<cite id="refShev98">{{Citation | last = SHEVOROSHKIN | first = Vitaly V. | authorlink = Shevoroshkin | title = 1998 Symposium on Nostratic at Cambridge | journal = [[Mother_Tongue_(journal)|Mother Tongue]] | issue = 31 | pages = 28–32 | publisher = [http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~witzel/aslip.html ASLIP] | date = Fall 1998 | format = [[JPEG|JPEG]] | url = http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~witzel/MT-31.htm | accessdate = 2008-01-28}}</cite>
*<cite id="refShev91">SHEVOROSHKIN, Vitaliy V., 1991. (Ed.) Dene-Sino-Caucasian Languages. Bochum: Brockmeyer.</cite>
*<cite id="refStar05">STAROSTIN, Sergei A., 2004–2005. [http://starling.rinet.ru/Texts/scc.pdf Sino-Caucasian [comparative phonology<nowiki>]</nowiki>] & [http://starling.rinet.ru/Texts/glossary.pdf Sino-Caucasian [comparative glossary<nowiki>]</nowiki>].</cite>
*<cite id="refStar02">STAROSTIN, Sergei A., 2002. "A response to Alexander Vovin's criticism of the Sino-Caucasian theory." Journal of Chinese Linguistics 30.1:142–153.</cite>
*<cite id="refStar00">STAROSTIN, Sergei A., 2000. "Genesis of the Long Vowels in Sino-Tibetan." In Проблемы изучения дальнего родства языков на рыбеже третьего тысячелетия: Доклады и тезисы международной конференции РГГУ [Problems of the research on the distant origin of languages at the beginning of the third millennium: Talks and abstracts of the international conference of the RGGU], Moscow 2000.</cite>
*<cite id="refStar96">STAROSTIN, Sergei A., 1996. "Word-final resonants in Sino-Caucasian." Journal of Chinese Linguistics 24.2: 281–311. (written for the 3rd International Conference on Chinese Linguistics in Hongkong in 1994)</cite>
*<cite id="refStar95">STAROSTIN, Sergei A., 1995. "Old Chinese Basic Vocabulary: A Historical Perspective." In The Ancestry of the Chinese Language (Journal of Chinese Linguistics Monograph No. 8), ed. by W. S.-Y. Wang, pp. 225–251. Berkeley, CA.</cite>
*<cite id="refStar94>{{Citation | first = Sergei A. | last = STAROSTIN | author-link = Sergei Starostin | editor-first = Starostin | editor-last = Sergei A. | editor2-first = Sergei L. | editor2-last = Nikola(y)ev | contribution = Preface | title = A North Caucasian Etymological Dictionary | year = 1994 | pages = 7–199 | place = Moscow | publisher = Asterisk Publishers | contribution-url = http://starling.rinet.ru/Texts/caucpref.pdf}}</cite>
*<cite id="refStar91">{{Citation | first = Sergei A. | last = STAROSTIN | author-link = Sergei Starostin | editor-last = SHEVOROSHKIN | editor-first = Vitaliy V. | contribution = On the Hypothesis of a Genetic Connection Between the Sino-Tibetan Languages and the Yeniseian and North Caucasian Languages | title = '''Dene-Sino-Caucasian languages''': materials from the First International Interdisciplinary Symposium on Language and Prehistory | year = 1991 | pages = 12–41 | place = Ann Harbor | publisher = Bochum: Brockmeyer}} [Translation of [[#refStar84|Starostin 1984]]]</cite>
*<cite id="refStar84">{{Citation | first = Sergei A. | last = STAROSTIN | author-link = Sergei Starostin | editor-last = Vardu | editor-first = I. F. | contribution = Гипотеза о генетических связях синотибетских языков с енисейскими и северокавказскими языками [A hypothesis on the genetic relationships of the Sino-Tibetan languages with the Yeniseian and the North Caucasian languages] | title = Лингвистическая реконструкция и древнейшая история Востока [Linguistic reconstruction and the ancient history of the East] | year = 1984 | pages = 19–38 | place = Moscow | publisher = Академия наук, Институт востоковедения [[Institute_of_Orientalistics_of_the_USSR_Academy_of_Sciences|Institute of Orientalistics of the USSR Academy of Sciences]]}} [See [[#refStar91|Starostin 1991]] for English translation]</cite>
*<cite id="refStarTree">{{Citation | title = The preliminary phylogenetic tree | work = The Tower of Babel | publisher = Evolution of Human Language Project | date = 2006-05-28 | url = http://starling.rinet.ru/images/globet.png | format = [[Portable_Network_Graphics|PNG]] | accessdate = 2008-01-28}}<cite>
*<cite id="refTras99">TRASK, R. L., 1999. "Why should a language have any relatives?" Pages 157–176 in: C. Renfrew & D. Nettle (eds.): Nostratic: Examining a Linguistic Macrofamily, McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research, Cambridge (UK).</cite>
*<cite id="refTras97">TRASK, R. L., 1997. "Basque and the Superfamilies". The History of Basque, Routledge, London. (See especially pages 403–408.)</cite>
*<cite id="refTras95">TRASK, R. L., 1995. "Basque and Dene-Caucasian: A Critique from the Basque Side". Mother Tongue 1:3–82.</cite>
*<cite id="refTras94">TRASK, R. L., 1994–1995. "Basque: The Search for Relatives (Part 1)." Dhumbadji! 2:3–54.</cite>
*<cite id="refVajd04">VAJDA, Edward J. (2004): Ket. (Languages of the World, Materials, 204) München: LINCOM Europa</cite>
*<cite id="refVajd02">VAJDA, Edward J. (2002): The origin of phonemic tone in Yeniseic. CLS 37 (Parasession on Arctic languages): 305-320</cite>
*<cite id="refVajd01a">VAJDA, Edward J. (2001a): Toward a typology of position class: comparing Navajo and Ket verb morphology. Read at: SSILA Summer Meeting, July 7, 2001</cite>
*<cite id="refVajd01b">VAJDA, Edward J. (2001b): Linguistic relations across Bering Strait: Siberia and the Native Americans. Read at: Bureau of Faculty Research, Western Washington University, Bellingham, WA, March 8, 2001</cite>
*<cite id="">VAJDA, Edward J. 2000. Evidence for a genetic connection between Na-Dene and Yeniseian (Central Siberia). – Paper read at: January 2000 meeting of Society for the Study of Indigenous Languages of America (SSILA) and Linguistic Society of America (LSA)</cite>
*<cite id="refVajd00a">VAJDA, Edward J. 2000a. Yeniseian and Na-Dene: evidence for a genetic relationship. – Paper read at: 38th Conference on American Indian Languages (SSILA), Chicago, Jan. 2000</cite>
*<cite id="refVajd00b">VAJDA, Edward J. 2000b. Yeniseian and Athabaskan-Eyak-Tlingit.' – Paper read at: Linguistics Department Colloquium, University of British Columbia, Mar. 2000</cite>
*<cite id="refVajd00c">VAJDA, Edward J. 2000c. Ket verb morphology and its parallels with Athabaskan-Eyak-Tlingit: evidence of a genetic link. – Paper read at: Athabaskan Language Conference, Moricetown, BC, June 9, 2000</cite>
*<cite id="refVajd00d">VAJDA, Edward J. 2000d. Athabaskan-Eyak-Tlingit and Yeniseian: lexical and phonological parallels. Read at: 39th Conference on American Indian Languages, San Francisco, Nov. 14-18, 2000</cite>
*<cite id="refDrie01">VAN DRIEM, George, 2001. "The Languages of the Himalayas." Brill, Leiden.</cite>
*<cite id="refVovi02">VOVIN, Alexander, 2002. "Building a 'bum-pa for Sino-Caucasian." Journal of Chinese Linguistics 30.1: 154–171.</cite>
*<cite id="refVovi97">VOVIN, Alexander, 1997. "The Comparative Method and Ventures Beyond Sino-Tibetan." Journal of Chinese Linguistics 25.2: 308–336.</cite>
*<cite id="refWern04">WERNER, Heinrich K. (2004): Zur jenissejisch-indianischen Urverwandtschaft [On the Yeniseian-[American] Indian primordial relationship]. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz</cite>
</div>

[[Category:假定的語言系屬分類|Category:假定的語言系屬分類]]