{{Expand English|Excess post-exercise oxygen consumption|date=2016年7月}}
'''运动后过量氧耗'''（{{lang-en|Excess post-exercise oxygen consumption}}，简称为'''EPOC'''，非正式称为'''后燃烧'''）是身体在剧烈运动后为了偿还“氧亏”（{{lang-en|oxygen deficit}}）而产生的[[氧气|氧气]]摄入速率显著增加。在运动生理学发展历程中，“氧债”（{{lang-en|oxygen debt}}）这一术语普遍被用于解释或是一种尝试定量[[无氧供能|无氧供能]]消耗的指标，特别是particularly as regards [[乳酸|乳酸]]/[[乳酸盐|乳酸盐]]代谢；事实上，the term "oxygen debt" is still widely used to this day. However, direct and indirect [[热量计|热量计]] experiments have definitively disproven any association of lactate metabolism as causal to an elevated oxygen uptake.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Scott CB, Kemp RB |title=Direct and indirect calorimetry of lactate oxidation: implications for whole-body energy expenditure |journal=Journal of Sports Sciences |volume=23 |issue=1 |pages=15–9 |date=January 2005 |pmid=15841591 |doi=10.1080/02640410410001716760}}</ref>

In recovery, oxygen (EPOC) is used in the processes that restore the body to a [[homeostasis|resting state]] and adapt it to the [[锻炼|锻炼]] just performed.  These include: [[激素|激素]] balancing, replenishment of fuel stores, 细胞修复、[[神经支配|神经支配]] and [[合成代谢|合成代谢]]. Post-exercise oxygen consumption replenishes the [[生物能量系统|磷酸原系统]]。新ATP is synthesized and some of this ATP donates phosphate groups to [[肌酸|肌酸]] until ATP and creatine levels are back to resting state levels again. Post-exercise oxygen is also used to oxidize lactic acid. Lactic acid is produced during exercise and then travels via the blood stream to the kidneys, cardiac muscle, and liver. An increased amount of oxygen is necessary to convert the lactic acid back to pyruvic acid at these locations. Another use of EPOC is to fuel the body’s increased metabolism from the increase in body temperature which occurs during exercise.<ref>{{cite book|last=Saladin|first=Kenneth|title=Anatomy & Physiology: The Unity of Form and Function|year=2012|publisher=McGraw Hill|location=New York|isbn=978-0-07-337825-1|pages=425}}</ref>

EPOC is accompanied by an elevated consumption of fuel. 为了应对运动所需的能量，脂肪储备被分解而[[游离脂肪酸|游离脂肪酸]]（FFA）被释放到血流之中。在In recovery, the direct oxidation of free fatty acids as fuel and the energy consuming re-conversion of FFAs back into fat stores both take place.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Bahr R |title=Excess postexercise oxygen consumption--magnitude, mechanisms and practical implications |journal=Acta Physiologica Scandinavica. Supplementum |volume=605 |issue= |pages=1–70 |year=1992 |pmid=1605041}}</ref><ref>{{cite journal |author=Bahr R, Høstmark AT, Newsholme EA, Grønnerød O, Sejersted OM |title=Effect of exercise on recovery changes in plasma levels of FFA, glycerol, glucose and catecholamines |journal=Acta Physiologica Scandinavica |volume=143 |issue=1 |pages=105–15 |date=September 1991 |pmid=1957696 |doi=10.1111/j.1748-1716.1991.tb09205.x}}</ref><ref>{{cite journal |author=Bielinski R, Schutz Y, Jéquier E |title=Energy metabolism during the postexercise recovery in man |journal=The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition |volume=42 |issue=1 |pages=69–82 |date=July 1985 |pmid=3893093 |url=http://www.ajcn.org/cgi/pmidlookup?view=long&pmid=3893093}}</ref>

==效应的维持时间==
EPOC的效果在剛運動完後最強，並隨著時間逐漸減弱。 一项实验发现EPOC增强了[[代谢|代谢]]率 rate to an excess level that decays to 13% three hours after exercise, and 4% after 16 hours. {{Citation needed|date=July 2014}} Another study, specifically designed to test whether the effect existed for more than 16 hours, conducted tests for 48 hours after the conclusion of the exercise and found measurable effects existed up to the 38 hour post-exercise measurement.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Schuenke MD, Mikat RP, McBride JM |title=Effect of an acute period of resistance exercise on excess post-exercise oxygen consumption: implications for body mass management |journal=European Journal of Applied Physiology |volume=86 |issue=5 |pages=411–7 |date=March 2002 |pmid=11882927 |doi=10.1007/s00421-001-0568-y}}</ref>

==EPOC效应的大小==
Studies show that the EPOC effect exists after both [[无氧运动|无氧运动]] and [[有氧运动|有氧运动]]. Such comparisons are problematic, however, in that it is difficult to equalize and subsequently compare workloads between the two types of exercise. For exercise regimens of comparable duration and intensity, aerobic exercise burns more [[calorie|calorie]]s during the exercise itself,<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.nutristrategy.com/activitylist.htm |title=List of Calories Burned During Exercise |publisher=NutriStrategy |accessdate=2010-07-29}}</ref> but the difference is partly offset by the higher increase in caloric expenditure that occurs during the EPOC phase after anaerobic exercise.  无氧运动 in the form of [[高強度間歇訓練|高強度間歇訓練]] was also found in one study to result in greater loss of [[脂肪组织|皮下脂肪]], even though the subjects expended fewer than half as many calories during exercise.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.exrx.net/FatLoss/HIITvsET.html |title=Impact of Exercise Intensity on Body Fatness and Skeletal Muscle Metabolism |publisher=Exrx.net |accessdate=2010-07-29}}</ref> Whether this result was caused by the EPOC effect has not been established, and the caloric content of the participants' diet was not controlled during this particular study period.

In a 1992 Purdue study, results showed that high intensity, anaerobic type exercise resulted in a significantly greater magnitude of EPOC than aerobic exercise of equal work output.<ref>{{cite book |last=Schmidt |first=Wilfred Daniel |year=1992 |title=The effects of aerobic and anaerobic exercise on resting metabolic rate, thermic effect of a meal, and excess postexercise oxygen consumption |type=Ph.D. dissertation |publisher=Purdue University}}{{pn|date=October 2014}}</ref>

Most researchers use a measure of EPOC as a natural part of the quantification or measurement of exercise and recovery energy expenditure; to others this is not deemed necessary. After a single bout or set of weight lifting, Scott et al. found considerable contributions of EPOC to total energy expenditure.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Scott CB, Croteau A, Ravlo T |title=Energy expenditure before, during, and after the bench press |journal=Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research |volume=23 |issue=2 |pages=611–8 |date=March 2009 |pmid=19197214 |doi=10.1519/JSC.0b013e31818c2845}}</ref> In their 2004 survey of the relevant literature, Meirelles and Gomes found: "In summary, EPOC resulting from a single resistance exercise ''session'' (i.e., many lifts) does not represent a great impact on energy balance; however, its cumulative effect may be relevant".<ref>{{cite journal |doi=10.1590/S1517-86922004000200006 |title=Efeitos agudos da atividade contra-resistência sobre o gasto energético: revisitando o impacto das principais variáveis |trans_title=Acute effects of resistance exercise on energy expenditure: revisiting the impact of the training variables |language= pt |year=2004 |last1=Meirelles |first1=Cláudia de Mello |last2=Gomes |first2=Paulo Sergio Chagas |journal=Revista Brasileira de Medicina do Esporte |volume=10 |issue=2 |pages=122–30}}</ref> This is echoed by Reynolds and Kravitz in their survey of the literature where they remarked: "the overall weight-control benefits of EPOC, for men and women, from participation in resistance exercise occur over a significant time period, since kilocalories are expended at a low rate in the individual post-exercise sessions."<ref>{{cite web |last1=Reynolds |first1=Jeff M |last2=Kravitz |first2=Len |url=http://www.drlenkravitz.com/Articles/epoc.html |title=Resistance Training and EPOC |accessdate=April 21, 2005 |deadurl=yes |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20050421183511/http://www.drlenkravitz.com/Articles/epoc.html |archivedate=2005年4月21日 }}{{Self-published inline|date=April 2010}}</ref>

The EPOC effect clearly increases with the intensity of the exercise, and (at least in the case of aerobic exercise, perhaps also for anaerobic) the duration of the exercise.<ref name=pmid14599232>{{cite journal |author=Børsheim E, Bahr R |title=Effect of exercise intensity, duration and mode on post-exercise oxygen consumption |journal=Sports Medicine |volume=33 |issue=14 |pages=1037–60 |year=2003 |pmid=14599232 |doi=10.2165/00007256-200333140-00002}}</ref>

Studies comparing intermittent and continuous exercise consistently show a greater EPOC response for higher intensity, intermittent exercise.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Baker EJ, Gleeson TT |title=EPOC and the energetics of brief locomotor activity in Mus domesticus |journal=The Journal of Experimental Zoology |volume=280 |issue=2 |pages=114–20 |date=February 1998  |pmid=9433798 |doi=10.1002/(SICI)1097-010X(19980201)280:2<114::AID-JEZ2>3.0.CO;2-R}}</ref>

==另见==
* [[高強度間歇訓練|高強度間歇訓練]]
* [[溜溜球效应|溜溜球效应]]

==参考文献==
{{reflist|colwidth=30em}}

==深入阅读==
*{{cite journal |last1=Hill |first1=A. V. |last2=Long |first2=C. N. H. |last3=Lupton |first3=H. |year=1924 |title=Muscular Exercise, Lactic Acid, and the Supply and Utilisation of Oxygen |journal=Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences |volume=96 |issue=679 |pages=438–75 |jstor=81203 |doi=10.1098/rspb.1924.0037}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Excess Post-Exercise Oxygen Consumption}}
[[Category:运动生理学|Category:运动生理学]]