{{blpunsourced|time=2018-04-14T08:08:36+00:00}}
{{expand|time=2018-04-14T08:08:36+00:00}}
'''科大衛'''（{{lang-en|David Faure}}）{{BD|1947年|||}}，知名歷史人類學家、華南史專家。

==生平==
早年畢業於[[聖保羅書院|聖保羅書院]]及[[香港大學|香港大學]]歷史系，後來於[[普林斯頓大學|普林斯頓大學]]取得社會學博士學位。現任[[香港中文大學|香港中文大學]]歷史系教授。

==部份著作==
* {{cite book|url=https://books.google.com/books?id=FRL4AAAAIAAJ|title=The structure of Chinese Rural Society: Lineage and Village in the Eastern New Territories, Hong Kong|series=East Asian Historical Monographs|location=Hong Kong|publisher=Oxford University Press|date=1986|last=Faure|first=David|ISBN=0-19-583970-6}}
*Emperor and Ancestor: State and Lineage in South China, Standford: Standford University Press 2007.皇帝和祖宗—华南的国家与宗族，江蘇人民出版社，2009
*China and Capitalism, A History of Business Enterprise in Modern China, Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press 2006.
*"La solution lignagere: la revolution rituelle du xviesiecle et 1 tat imperial chinois," Annales, Histoire, Sciences, Sociales 2006, 61:6, pp. 1291-1316.
*"The Yao Wars in the mid-Ming and their impact on Yao ethnicity," in Pamela Kyle Crossley, Helen Siu and Donald Sutton, eds. Empire at the Margins: Culture, Ethnicity and Frontier in Early Modern China, Berkeley: University of California Press, 2006, pp. 171-189.
*人類學與中國近代社會史：影響與前景，東吳歷史學報，14, 2005, 頁 21-36.
*"The common people in Hong Kong history: their livelihood and aspirations unitl the 1930s," in Lee Pui-tak, ed. Colonial Hong Kong and Modern China, Interaction and Reintegration, Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press, 2005, pp. 9-37.
*"Between house and home, the family in south China," in Ronald G. Knapp and Kai-yin Lo, eds. House Home and Family: Living and Being Chinese, Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 2005.
*“The local official in commercial litigation in early nineteenth-century China,” University of Tokyo Journal of Law and Politics, 2004, vol. 1, pp. 144-155.
*《告別華南研究》，華南研究會編：《學步與超越﹕華南研究論文集》﹐香港﹕文化創造出版社﹐2004﹐頁9-30。
*A Documentary History of Hong Kong, vols. 2 Society and 3 Economy, (volume 3 co-edited with Pui-tak Lee), Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press, 1997 and 2004.
*Colonialism and the Hong Kong Mentality, Hong Kong: Centre of Asian Studies, University of Hong Kong, 2003.
*“The original translocal society and its modern fate: historical and post-reform south China,” (with Helen Siu) Provincial China 8:1, 2003, pp. 40-59.
*《祠堂與家廟: 從宋末到明中葉宗族禮儀的演變》，《歷史人類學學報》，1:2, 2003, 頁 1-20。
*“The Heaven and Earth Society in the nineteenth century: an interpretation,” in Kwang-ching Liu and Richard Shek, eds. Heterodoxy in Late Imperial China, Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 2004, pp. 365-392.

== 相關條目 ==

* [[華南學派|華南學派]]
{{香港中文大學}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Faure, David}}
[[Category:香港歷史學家|Category:香港歷史學家]]
[[Category:香港大學校友|Category:香港大學校友]]
[[Category:普林斯頓大學校友|Category:普林斯頓大學校友]]
[[Category:香港中文大學教授|Category:香港中文大學教授]]