{{noteTA
|G1=IT
}}
{{Infobox Organization
|name           = 科纳斯组织<ref>[http://cn.khronos.org/news/press/khronos-group-china-2012 科纳斯组织（Khronos Group）注重中国在国际主要技术标准方面的融入]</ref>
|image          = Khronos Group logo.svg
|image_border   = 
|size           = 
|caption        = 
|map            = 
|msize          = 
|mcaption       = 
|abbreviation   = 
|motto          = Open Standards for Media Authoring and Acceleration
|formation      = {{start date and age|2000}}
|extinction     = 
|type           = [[聯盟|聯盟]]
|status         = 
|purpose        = Creating open standard APIs to enable the authoring and playback of rich media on a wide variety of platforms and devices.
|headquarters   = 美国，[[俄勒冈州|俄勒冈州]][[比佛頓市_(俄勒岡州)|比佛頓市]]
|location       = 15500 SW Jay Street #45043, Beaverton, Oregon 97006 USA
|coords         = {{coord|45.508407|-122.834305}}
|region_served  = 全球
|membership     = 
|language       = 
|leader_title   = 主席
|leader_name    = {{le|尼尔·特里维特|Neil Trevett}}
|main_organ     = 
|parent_organization = 
|affiliations   = 
|num_staff      = 
|num_volunteers = 
|budget         = 
|key_people     = 
|website        = [https://www.khronos.org/ Khronos Group]
|remarks        =
}}
'''科纳斯组织'''（Khronos Group）是一个由成员资助的，专注于制定开放标准（Open standard）的行业协会，重点制定免费的[[API|API]]，使在各种平台和设备上创作或播放的[[多媒体|多媒体]]可以得到硬件加速。所有Khronos成员都能够对Khronos API规范的发展作出贡献，在API公开发布前提出自己的意见，在规范制定初期得到草案并进行平台和应用程序测试。

2006年7月31日，Khronos Group在[[SIGGRAPH|SIGGRAPH]]上宣布得到[[OpenGL|OpenGL]]规范的控制权。<ref>[https://www.khronos.org/news/press/releases/opengl_arb_to_pass_control_of_opengl_specification_to_khronos_group/ OpenGL ARB to pass control of OpenGL specification to Khronos Group] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20141203221702/https://www.khronos.org/news/press/releases/opengl_arb_to_pass_control_of_opengl_specification_to_khronos_group/ |date=2014-12-03 }}, Khronos press release</ref><ref>[http://www.accessmylibrary.com/coms2/summary_0286-16157838_ITM OpenGL ARB to Pass Control of OpenGL Specification to Khronos Group], AccessMyLibrary Archive</ref>

== 工作组 ==
*[[COLLADA|COLLADA]], a file-format intended to facilitate interchange of 3D assets
*[[EGL_(API)|EGL]], an interface between Khronos rendering APIs such as OpenGL ES or OpenVG and the underlying native platform window system<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.khronos.org/egl/|title=EGL Overview|publisher=Khronos website|date=October 15, 2009}}</ref>
* [[glTF|glTF]], a file format specification for 3D scenes and models<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.khronos.org/gltf|title=glTF|publisher=Khronos website|date=September 2, 2016}}</ref>
*[[OpenCL|OpenCL]]，[[跨平台|跨平台]]通用计算API。<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.khronos.org/news/press/releases/khronos_launches_heterogeneous_computing_initiative/|title=Khronos launches heterogeneous computing initiative|publisher=Khronos press release|date=June 16, 2008}}</ref>
*[[OpenGL|OpenGL]]，[[跨平台|跨平台]]计算机图形API。
*[[OpenGL_ES|OpenGL ES]]，OpenGL的衍生产品，用于移动和嵌入式系统，如手机、便携式游戏设备等。
*[[OpenGL_SC|OpenGL SC]], a safety critical profile of OpenGL ES designed to meet the needs of the safety-critical market
*[[OpenKCam|OpenKCam]], Advanced Camera Control API
*[[OpenKODE|OpenKODE]], an API for providing abstracted, portable access to operating system resources such as file systems, networks and math libraries
*[[OpenMAX|OpenMAX]], a layered set of three programming interfaces of various abstraction levels, providing access to multimedia functionality
*[[OpenML|OpenML]], an API for capturing, transporting, processing, displaying, and synchronizing digital media
*[[OpenSL_ES|OpenSL ES]], an audio API tuned for embedded systems, standardizing access to features such as 3D positional audio and MIDI playback
*[[OpenVG|OpenVG]]，二维[[矢量图形|矢量图形]]加速API。
*[[OpenVX|OpenVX]], Hardware acceleration API for Computer Vision applications and libraries
*[[OpenWF|OpenWF]], APIs for 2D graphics composition and display control
*[[OpenXR|OpenXR]], an open and royalty-free standard for [[virtual_reality|virtual reality]] and [[augmented_reality|augmented reality]] applications and devices
*[[Standard_Portable_Intermediate_Representation|SPIR]], an intermediate compiler target for OpenCL and Vulkan
*[[StreamInput|StreamInput]], an API for consistently handling input devices
*[[SYCL|SYCL]], a single-source [[C++|C++]] [[DSEL|DSEL]] for [[heterogeneous_computing|heterogeneous computing]]
*[[Vulkan_(API)|Vulkan]], a low-overhead computer graphics API
*[[WebCL|WebCL]]，将浏览器中的[[JavaScript|JavaScript]]绑定到OpenCL。
*[[WebGL|WebGL]]，将任意平台上浏览器中的[[JavaScript|JavaScript]]绑定到OpenGL ES，支持OpenGL或OpenGL ES图形标准。

== 会员 ==
科纳斯组织将会员分为：<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.khronos.org/members/list |title=Khronos Members |work=khronos.org}}</ref>
*创始会员 - 拥有完整的工作组参与权和投票权，以及向科纳斯董事会指定董事的权利。
*贡献者会员 - 拥有完整的工作组参与权和投票权。
*准会员 - 拥有完整的工作组参与权，但没有投票权。
*学术会员 - 拥有完整的工作组参与权，但没有投票权。

===创始会员===
{{columns
|col1=
* [[超威半导体|AMD]]
* [[蘋果公司|蘋果公司]]
* [[安謀控股|安謀控股]]（ARM）
* [[Epic_Games|Epic Games]]
* [[Google|Google]]
|col2=
* [[华为|华为]]
* [[Imagination_Technologies|Imagination Technologies]]
* [[英特尔|英特尔]]
* [[诺基亚|诺基亚]]
* [[英伟达|英伟达]]
|col3=
* [[高通|高通]]
* [[三星電子|三星電子]]
* [[索尼互動娛樂|索尼互動娛樂]]
* [[威尔乌|威尔乌]]（Valve）
* [[芯原微电子|芯原微电子]]}}

===贡献者会员===
{{columns
|col1=
* [[Adobe_Systems|Adobe]]
* [[亞馬遜公司|亞馬遜公司]]
* [[暴雪娛樂|暴雪娛樂]]
* {{le|Codeplay}}
* [[IBM|IBM]]
* [[LG電子|LG電子]]
* [[Matrox|Matrox]]
|col2=
* [[微软|微软]]
* [[Mozilla基金會|Mozilla]]
* [[任天堂|任天堂]]<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/254327/Nintendo_quietly_joins_graphics_standards_body_Khronos_Group.php |last=Wawro |first=Alex |date=September 22, 2015 |title=Nintendo joins graphics standards body Khronos Group |work=Gamasutra }}</ref>
* [[Oculus_VR|Oculus VR]]
* [[Panasonic|Panasonic]]
* [[Pixar|Pixar]]
* [[Red_Hat|Red Hat]]
* [[瑞薩電子|瑞薩電子]]
* [[Synopsys|Synopsys]]
|col3=
* [[德州仪器|德州仪器]]
* [[Qt公司|Qt公司]]
* {{le|Unity Technologies}}
* [[威盛電子|威盛電子]]
* [[沐曦集成电路|沐曦集成电路]]
* [[VMware|VMware]]
* [[Xilinx|Xilinx]]
}}

===准会员===
{{columns
|col1=
* [[Basemark|Basemark]]
* [[LunarG|LunarG]]
* [[Coohom|Coohom]]
}}

===学术会员===
{{columns
|col1=
* [[亞洲大學_(韓國)|亞洲大學 (韓國)]]
* [[中国信息通信研究院|中国信息通信研究院]]
* [[哥伦比亚大学|哥伦比亚大学]]
* [[韩国电子通信研究院|韩国电子通信研究院]]
* [[伦敦帝国学院|伦敦帝国学院]]
|col2=
* [[資訊工業策進會|資訊工業策進會]]
* [[林肯實驗室|林肯實驗室]]
* [[俄勒岡州立大學|俄勒岡州立大學]]
|col3=
* [[首爾大學|首爾大學]]
* [[博洛尼亚大学|博洛尼亚大学]]
* [[布里斯托尔大学|布里斯托尔大学]]
* [[多倫多大學|多倫多大學]]
* [[溫莎大學|溫莎大學]]
}}

===过去的会员===
* [[冶天科技|ATI]]（在被AMD收购之前）
* [[创新科技|创新科技]]
* [[愛立信|愛立信]]
* [[id_Software|id Software]]
* [[卢卡斯影业|卢卡斯影业]]
* [[摩托罗拉|摩托罗拉]]
* [[Oracle_Corporation|Oracle]]/[[Sun_Microsystems|Sun Microsystems]]

科纳斯组织在其网站上保留了其成员的最新名单。<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.khronos.org/members/list/ |title=Khronos members |website=khronos.org}}</ref>

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Reflist|30em}}

{{-}}
{{Khronos Group standards}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Khronos Group}}
[[Category:标准制订机构|Category:标准制订机构]]
[[Category:图形标准|Category:图形标准]]
[[Category:应用程序接口|+]]
[[Category:2000年建立的組織|Category:2000年建立的組織]]