{{NoteTA
|G1=Butterfly
}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Anartia
| fossil_range = {{fossilrange|39|0|earliest=52}}<small>從[[始新世|始新世]]至今<ref name=w2006>Wahlberg, N. 2006. That awkward age for butterflies: insights from the age of the butterfly subfamily Nymphalinae. Systematic Biology 55:703-714. {{en}}</ref></small>
| image = White Peacock (Anartia jatrophae) (8151675651).jpg
| image_caption = [[褐紋蛺蝶|褐紋蛺蝶]]<br />''Anartia jatrophae''
| authority = Hübner, [1819]
| type_species = [[褐紋蛺蝶|褐紋蛺蝶]]<br />''Papilio jatrophae''
| type_species_authority = Linnaeus, 1763
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 
共5種，詳見正文。
| synonyms =
* ''Celaena'' <small>Doubleday 1849</small>
* ''Celoena'' <small>Boisduval 1870</small>
* ''Anartiella'' <small>Fruhstorfer 1907</small>
}}

'''紋蛺蝶屬'''（學名：'''''Anartia'''''）是[[蛺蝶亞科|蛺蝶亞科]][[維蛺蝶族|維蛺蝶族]]中的一個[[屬|屬]]。物種分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]。

== 物種 ==
* [[白斑紅紋蛺蝶|白斑紅紋蛺蝶]] ''Anartia amathea'' (Linnaeus, 1758) 
* [[金紋蛺蝶|金紋蛺蝶]] ''Anartia chrysopelea'' Hübner, [1831] 
* [[白紋蛺蝶|白紋蛺蝶]] ''Anartia fatima'' (Fabricius, 1793) 
* [[褐紋蛺蝶|褐紋蛺蝶]] ''Anartia jatrophae'' (Linnaeus, 1763) 
* [[黑紋蛺蝶|黑紋蛺蝶]] ''Anartia lytrea'' (Godart, 1819)

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Commons category|  Anartia}}
{{Wikispecies| Anartia}}
* Blum MJ, Bermingham E, and Dasmahapatra K. 2003. A molecular phylogeny of the neotropical butterfly genus Anartia (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 26: 46-55.
* Dasmahaptra KK, Blum MJ, Aiello A, Hackwell S, Davies N, Bermingham EP, and Mallet J. 2002. Inferences from a rapidly moving hybrid zone. Evolution 56: 741-753.
* Lamas G ed. 2004. Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2009. Anartia Hübner 1819. Version 03 May 2009 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Anartia/70323/2009.05.03 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Anartia/70323/2009.05.03 |date=20191130235204 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

{{蛺蝶亞科}}
{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_1763年描述的分类群|W]]
[[Category:維蛺蝶族|W]]
[[Category:紋蛺蝶屬|*]]
[[Category:_卡尔·林奈命名的生物分类|W]]