{{Automatic Taxobox
| image = Allosaurus SDNHM.jpg
| image_width = 250px
| image_caption = [[異特龍|異特龍]]的骨骼模型
| fossil_range = [[侏儸紀|侏儸紀]]晚期至[[全新世|现今]]，{{fossil_range|175.6|0|earliest=196}} 可能还有[[侏罗纪|侏罗纪]]早期的记录
| taxon =Avetheropoda
| authority = [[Paul|Paul]]，1988
| subdivision_ranks = [[演化支|演化支]]
| subdivision = 
*†[[氣龍屬|氣龍屬]] ''Gasosaurus''
*†[[肉食龍下目|肉食龍下目]] Carnosauria
*[[虛骨龍類|虛骨龍類]] Coelurosauria
*'''地位不明'''
**†[[大盜龍類|大盜龍類]] Megaraptora
| synonyms = '''新坚尾龙类 Neotetanurae''' <small>Sereno等人，1998</small>
}}

'''鳥獸腳類'''（[[学名|学名]]：{{lang|la|Avetheropoda}}）是[[獸腳亞目|獸腳亞目]][[堅尾龍類|堅尾龍類]]的一個[[演化支|演化支]]，包含[[肉食龍下目|肉食龍下目]]與[[虛骨龍類|虛骨龍類]]<ref name =HOL04>Holtz Jr., T. R., Molnar, R. E. & Currie, P. J. 2004. Basal Tetanurae. In: The Dinosauria, ed. D.B. Weishampel, P. Dodson & H. Osmólska.University of California Press, Berkeley, D.B. Weishampel, P. Dodson & H. Osmólska. Ed. University of California Press71-110.</ref>。在1988年，[[保羅·塞里諾|保羅·塞里諾]]（Paul Sereno）提出鳥獸腳類的概念，最初使用[[嗜鳥龍|嗜鳥龍]]、[[美頜龍|美頜龍]]、[[異特龍科|異特龍科]]、[[暴龍科|暴龍科]]、以及部分[[阿貝力龍科|阿貝力龍科]]（例如[[印度鱷龍|印度鱷龍]]）作為分類的基準點<ref name = PAU88>Paul, G. S. 1988. Predatory dinosaurs of the world. Simon and Schuster. New York. Simon and Schuster.464 p.</ref>。在1994年，[[湯瑪斯·霍爾茲|湯瑪斯·霍爾茲]]（Thomas R. Holtz）正式建立鳥獸腳類（Avetheropoda）的名稱。同樣在1994年，保羅·塞里諾與其他科學家建立'''新堅尾龍類'''（Neotetanurae）演化支，範圍與鳥獸腳類接近<ref name = SER94>Sereno, P. C., Wilson, J. A., Larsson, H.C. E., Dutheil, D. B. & Cavigelli, J. P. 1994. Dinosaur evolution on southern continents; new evidence from Cretaceous deposits in the Sahara. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology. Abstracts of papers. Fifty-fourth Annual Meeting. Society of Vertebrate Paleontology. Burke Museum. University of Washington. Seattle. Washington, October 19-22, 14, supplement to number 3, 45A.</ref>。由於鳥獸腳類的正式命名，早於新堅尾龍類約一個月，鳥獸腳類成為正式的名稱<ref name=HOL04/><ref name =PAU02>Paul, G. S. 2002. Dinosaurs of the Air. The Hopkins University Press. The Hopkins University Press. 460 pp.</ref>。

在1999年，[[凱文·帕迪恩|凱文·帕迪恩]]（Kevin Padian）將鳥獸腳類做出定義，範圍是[[異特龍|脆弱異特龍]]與[[家麻雀|家麻雀]]的最近共同祖先，與其最近共同祖先的所有後代<ref name=SER98>Sereno, P. C. 1998. A rationale for phylogenetic definitions, with application to the higher-level taxonomy of Dinosauria. Neues Jahrbuch fur Geologie und Palaeontologie. Abhandlungen, 210, 1, 41-83.</ref><ref name=PAD99>Padian, K., Hutchinson, J. R. & Holtz, R., Jr. 1999. Phylogenetic definitions and nomenclature of the major taxonomic categories of the carnivorous dinosauria (Theropoda). Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology, 19, 1, 69-80.</ref>。湯瑪斯·霍爾茲、[[菲力·居爾|菲力·居爾]]（Phil Chure）曾分別提出相同範圍的鳥獸腳類定義<ref name =HOL00>Holtz, T. 2000. Estimating the theropod phylogeny: fragments, outgroups, and ""functional complexes"". Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology. Abstracts of papers. Sixtieth annual meeting. Society of vertebrate paleontology, Mexico City, Mexico, October 25-28, 20, Supplement to number 3, 49A.</ref><ref name=CHU01>Chure, D. J. 2001. The second record of the African theropod Elaphrosaurus (Dinosauria, Ceratosauria) from the Western Hemisphere. Neues Jahrbuch für Geologie und Paläontologie, Monatshefte, 2001, 9, 566-576.</ref>。

==參考文獻==
<div class="references-small">
<references></references>
</div>

==外部連結==
*[http://www.dinoruss.com/de_4/5c3d7df.htm 鳥獸腳類的特徵]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20080405195726/http://www.taxonsearch.org/dev/taxon_edit.php?Action=View&tax_id=45 鳥獸腳類的分類歷史]
{{獸腳亞目|A.}}
{{Taxonbar|from=Q138921}}

[[Category:堅尾龍類|*]]
[[分類:鳥獸腳類|分類:鳥獸腳類]]