{{taxobox
| fossil_range = {{fossilrange|70.6|0}} [[晚白堊紀|晚白堊紀]]至[[現在|現在]]
| image = Snapping_turtle_2_md.jpg
| image_caption = [[擬鱷龜屬|擬鱷龜屬]]下的[[擬鱷龜|擬鱷龜]]
| regnum = [[動物界|動物界]] Animalia
| phylum = [[脊索動物門|脊索動物門]] Chordata
| classis = [[爬行綱|爬行綱]] Reptilia
| ordo = [[龜鱉目|龜鱉目]] Testudines
| familia = '''鱷龜科 Chelydridae'''
| authority = [[約翰·愛德華·格雷|Gray]], 1831<ref name="Rhodin11"/>
| display_children=1
| synonyms = *Chelydrae <small>Gray, 1831</small>
*Chelydridae <small>Gray, 1839</small>
*Chelydradae <small>Gray, 1869</small>
| synonyms_ref =<ref name="Rhodin11">{{Harnvb|Rhodin|2011|p=000.171}}</ref>
}}

'''鱷龜科'''（'''Chelydridae'''）是[[龜鱉目|龜鱉目]]下的一個科，有[[擬鱷龜屬|擬鱷龜屬]]和[[大鱷龜屬|大鱷龜屬]]等2個現存屬和 ''Acherontemys''、''Chelydrops''、''Chelydropsis''、''Emarginachelys''、''Macrocephalochelys''、''Planiplastron''和''Protochelydra''等7個已滅絕屬。

==參考文獻==
{{reflist}}
* de Broin, F.  1969.  Contribution a l’etude des cheloniens.  Cheloniens continentaux du Cretace Superieur et du Tertiaire de France.  Memoires du [[Muséum_National_d'Histoire_Naturelle|Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle]].  Vol. C, No. XXVIII
* Ericson, B. R.  1973.  A new chelydrid turtle (''Protochelydra zangerli''), from the late Paleocene of North Dakota.  Scientific Publications of the Science Museum of Minnesota, New Series 2(2):1-16
* Gaffney, E. S.  1975.  [[Phylogenetics|Phylogeny]] of the chelydrid turtles:  a study of shared derived characters in the skull.  Fieldiana [[Geology|Geology]], 33:157-178
* Parham, J. F., C.R. Feldman, and J. R. Boore. The complete [[mitochondrial_genome|mitochondrial genome]] of the enigmatic bigheaded turtle (''Platysternon''): description of unusual genomic features and the reconciliation of phylogenetic hypotheses based on mitochondrial and [[nuclear_DNA|nuclear DNA]]. BMC Evol Biol. 2006; 6: 11. Published online February 7, 2006. {{doi|10.1186/1471-2148-6-11}}.
* Whetstone, K. N. 1978. A new genus of cryptodiran turtles (Testudinoidea, Chelydridae) from the Upper Cretaceous [[Hell_Creek_Formation|Hell Creek Formation]] of Montana. [[University_of_Kansas|University of Kansas]] Science Bulletin. Lawrence, Kansas. 51(17):539-563.

==參考書目==
*{{Anchor|CITEREFRhodin2011}}{{cite journal | url = http://www.iucn-tftsg.org/wp-content/uploads/file/Accounts/crm_5_000_checklist_v4_2011.pdf | title = Turtles of the world, 2011 update: Annotated checklist of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution and conservation status | journal = Chelonian Research Monographs | volume = 5 | year = 2011 | accessdate =  | date = 2011-12-31 | author = Rhodin, Anders G.J.; van Dijk, Peter Paul; Inverson, John B.; Shaffer, H. Bradley; Roger, Bour | archiveurl = https://www.webcitation.org/64t6NrOyR?url=http://www.iucn-tftsg.org/wp-content/uploads/file/Accounts/crm_5_000_checklist_v4_2011.pdf | archivedate = 2012-01-22 | deadurl = yes }}

[[Category:龜鱉目|Category:龜鱉目]]
[[Category:鱷龜科|Category:鱷龜科]]