
{{Infobox language family
|name=西喜马拉雅语支
|altname=Kanauric、Almora
|region=印度[[阿鲁纳恰尔邦|阿鲁纳恰尔邦]]、[[北阿坎德邦|北阿坎德邦]]、[[尼泊尔|尼泊尔]]
|familycolor=Sino-Tibetan
|fam2=[[藏-喜马拉雅语支|藏-喜马拉雅语支]]？<br>[[戎语支|戎语支]]？
|child1=金瑙尔语组
|child2=阿尔莫拉语组
|glotto=tibe1275
|glottorefname=West Himalayish
}}

'''西喜马拉雅语支'''，也称'''阿尔莫拉语支'''或'''金瑙尔语支'''，是[[汉藏语系|汉藏语系]]下一支语言，位于[[喜马偕尔邦|喜马偕尔邦]]、[[北阿坎德邦|北阿坎德邦]]和[[尼泊尔|尼泊尔]]境内。LaPolla (2003)假定西喜马拉雅语支语言属于更大的“[[戎语支|戎语支]]”。

==语言==

*金瑙尔语组
**[[奇库尔金瑙尔语|奇库尔金瑙尔语]]
**[[金瑙尔语|金瑙尔语]]
**Thebor: [[Sunam_language|Sunam]]、[[Jangshung_language|Jangshung]]、[[Shumcho_language|Shumcho]]
*拉豪尔语组：[[Pattani_language|Pattani]] (Manchad)、[[蒂南语|蒂南语]]
*[[布南语|布南语]]
*[[Kanashi_language|Kanashi]]
*Rongpo–阿尔莫拉语组
**[[Rongpo_language|Rongpo]]
**阿尔莫拉语组：[[Darmiya_language|Darmiya]]、[[Byangsi_language|Byangsi]]、[[Dhuleli_language|Dhuleli]]、[[Chaudangsi_language|Chaudangsi]]、[[Rangas_language|Rangas]] (20世纪早期灭绝)、[[<font_color="#6666ff">象雄语</font>|<font color="#6666ff">象雄语</font>]]

[[象雄语|象雄语]]是[[苯教|苯教]]的神圣语言，分布在喜马拉雅山脉北麓，在藏语扩张至此之前横贯[[西藏|西藏]]西部。[[詹姆斯·马提索夫|詹姆斯·马提索夫]] (2001)<ref>Matisoff, James. 2001. "The interest of Zhangzhung for comparative Tibeto-Burman." In ''New Research on Zhangzhung and Related Himalayan Languages'' (Bon Studies 3). Senri Ethnological Studies no. 19. 大阪: 国立民族学博物館. {{doi|10.15021/00002145}}</ref>{{rp|155-180}}给出了象雄语属于西喜马拉雅语支的词汇和音系证据。

==系属分类==
Widmer (2014:47)<ref name="Widmer2014">Widmer, Manuel. 2014. "A tentative classification of West Himalayish." In ''A descriptive grammar of Bunan''. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Bern.</ref>{{rp|33-56}}的西喜马拉雅语支分类如下。最近新发现的[[Dhuleli_language|Dhuleli]]在Regmi & Prasain (2017)中加入。<ref name="Regmi">Regmi, Dan Raj; Prasain, Balaram. 2017. ''A sociolinguistic survey of Dhuleli''. Linguistic Survey of Nepal (LinSuN), Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, Nepal.</ref>
;西喜马拉雅语支
*西部语群
**拉豪尔语组：[[Pattani_language|Manchad]]、[[蒂南语|蒂南语]]
**金瑙尔语组：[[Kanashi_language|Kanashi]]、下金瑙尔语、标准[[金瑙尔语|金瑙尔语]]、奇库尔金瑙尔语、Jangrami、[[Shumcho_language|Shumcho]]
*东部语群
**中部语组：[[布南语|布南语]]、[[Sunam_language|Sunnami]]、[[Rongpo_language|Rongpo]]; possibly [[象雄语|象雄语]]
**阿尔莫拉语组：[[Rangas_language|Rangas]]、[[Darmiya_language|Darmiya]]、[[Byangsi_language|Byangsi]]、[[Dhuleli_language|Dhuleli]]、[[Chaudangsi_language|Chaudangsi]]

Widmer (2014:53-56)<ref name="Widmer2014"/>还将[[象雄语|象雄语]]划入西喜马拉雅语支东部语群，并注意到它出现得和中部语组的语言([[布南语|布南语]]、[[Sunam_language|Sunnami]]和[[Rongpo_language|Rongpo]])特别近。

Widmer (2017)<ref name="Widmer2017">Widmer, Manuel. 2017. ''[https://www.academia.edu/34126236/The_linguistic_prehistory_of_the_western_Himalayas_endangered_minority_languages_as_a_window_to_the_past The linguistic prehistory of the western Himalayas: endangered minority languages as a window to the past] {{Wayback|url=https://www.academia.edu/34126236/The_linguistic_prehistory_of_the_western_Himalayas_endangered_minority_languages_as_a_window_to_the_past |date=20210730092910 }}''. Presented at Panel on Endangered Languages and Historical Linguistics, 23rd International Conference on Historical Linguistics (ICHL 23), San Antonio, Texas.</ref>注意到[[青藏高原|青藏高原]]西部许多[[藏语方言|藏语方言]]都曾被西喜马拉雅语支语言影响过。

==词汇==
Widmer (2017)<ref name="Widmer2017"/>给出下列东部和西部西喜马拉雅语支语言的词汇对应。
{| class="wikitable"
! 语言 !! 1 !! 手 !! 哭 !! 黑
|-
| 原始东西喜马拉雅语 || *it || *gut || *krap- || *rok-
|-
| [[Pattani_language|Manchad]] || itsa || gùṛa || krap- || roki
|-
| [[Kanashi_language|Kanashi]] || idh || guḍ || kərop- || roko
|-
| [[金瑙尔语|金瑙尔语]] <br>(Southern) || id || gŭd' || krap- || rŏkh
|-
| 原始西喜马拉雅语 || *tik || *lak || *tjo- || *kʰaj/*wom
|-
| [[Bunan_language|Bunan]] || tiki || lak || tjo- || kʰaj
|-
| [[Rangpo_language|Rongpo]] || tig || lag || tyõ- || kʰasyũ
|-
| [[Byangsi_language|Byangsi]]|| tigɛ || là || tye- || wamdɛ
|}

Widmer (2014:53-56)<ref name="Widmer2014"/>将[[象雄语|象雄语]]划入西喜马拉雅语支东部语群，并列出了象雄语和原始西喜马拉雅语的同源词。

{| class="wikitable"
! 词义 !! 象雄语 !! 原始西喜马拉雅语
|-
| 大麦 || zad || *zat
|-
| 蓝 || ting || *tiŋ-
|-
| 小称后缀 || -tse || *-tse ~ *-tsi
|-
| 耳 || ra tse || *re
|-
| 脂肪 || tsʰas || *tsʰos
|-
| 女孩 || tsa med || *tsamet
|-
| 神|| sad || *sat
|-
| 金？ || zang || *zaŋ
|-
| 心 || she || *ɕe
|-
| 老（人） || shang ze || *ɕ(j)aŋ
|-
| 红 || mang || *maŋ
|-
| 白 || shi nom || *ɕi
|}

==脚注==
{{reflist}}

==参考==
* George van Driem (2001) ''Languages of the Himalayas: An Ethnolinguistic Handbook of the Greater Himalayan Region.'' Brill.
*LaPolla, Randy. 2001. ''[http://www.ntu.edu.sg/home/randylapolla/papers/LaPolla_2001_The_Tibeto-Burman_Languages_of_Uttar_Pradesh.pdf The Tibeto-Burman Languages of Uttar Pradesh] {{Wayback|url=http://www.ntu.edu.sg/home/randylapolla/papers/LaPolla_2001_The_Tibeto-Burman_Languages_of_Uttar_Pradesh.pdf |date=20160416195629 }}''.
*Widmer, Manuel. 2017. ''[https://www.academia.edu/34126236/The_linguistic_prehistory_of_the_western_Himalayas_endangered_minority_languages_as_a_window_to_the_past The linguistic prehistory of the western Himalayas: endangered minority languages as a window to the past] {{Wayback|url=https://www.academia.edu/34126236/The_linguistic_prehistory_of_the_western_Himalayas_endangered_minority_languages_as_a_window_to_the_past |date=20210730092910 }}''. Presented at Panel on Endangered Languages and Historical Linguistics, 23rd International Conference on Historical Linguistics (ICHL 23), San Antonio, Texas.
*Widmer, Manuel. 2018. [http://hdl.handle.net/2433/235313 The linguistic prehistory of the western Himalayas]. ''Proceedings of the 51st International Conference on Sino-Tibetan Languages and Linguistics (2018)''. Kyoto: Kyoto University.

{{汉藏语系}}


[[Category:藏緬語族|Category:藏緬語族]]
[[Category:西藏语言|Category:西藏语言]]
[[Category:藏-喜馬拉雅語群|Category:藏-喜馬拉雅語群]]