{{Infobox Central bank
|image_1=  Banco de España (Madrid) 06.jpg
|image_title_1 = View of the Bank of Spain.
|headquarters = Calle Alcala,48 [[馬德里|馬德里]]
|coordinates    = {{coord|40|25|06|N|3|41|41|W|display=inline,title}}
|established =  1782
|president = [[Pablo_Hernández_de_Cos|Pablo Hernández de Cos]]
|leader_title = Governor
|bank_of = Spain
|currency =
|currency_iso =
|reserves = €14,972 million  (2006年10月)
<!--DO NOT add info on currency, rates, printer or mints, as these are controlled by ECB -->
|website = [http://www.bde.es  www.bde.es]
|preceded = Banco Nacional de San Carlos
|succeeded = [[歐洲中央銀行|歐洲中央銀行]] (1999)<sup>1</sup>
|footnotes = <sup>1</sup> The Bank of Spain still exists but many functions have been taken over by the ECB.
}}
{{Infobox Historic Site
| name = Bank of Spain (building)
| native_name = Edificio del Banco de España
| native_language = Spanish
| image = 
| caption = 
| locmapin = Spain
| location = [[西班牙|西班牙]][[馬德里|馬德里]]
| area = 
| built = 
| architect = 
| architecture = 
| governing_body = 
| designation1 = Spain
| designation1_offname = Edificio del Banco de España
| designation1_type = Non-movable
| designation1_criteria = Monument
| designation1_date = 1999<ref name="bic">{{Bien de Interés Cultural}}</ref>
| designation1_number = RI-51-0010508
}}

'''西班牙銀行'''（{{lang-es|Banco de España}}）為[[西班牙|西班牙]]的國家[[中央銀行|中央銀行]]。由[[卡洛斯三世|卡洛斯三世]]於1782年在[[馬德里|馬德里]]成立，現今為[[歐洲中央銀行體系|歐洲中央銀行體系]]的成員。它也為西班牙銀行系統的國家主管機關。

==注释==
{{reflist}}

==參考資料==

* Varios autores (1970), "El Banco de España. Una historia económica". Madrid, Banco de España
* Pedro Schwartz (1970), "Ensayos sobre la economía española a mediados del siglo XIX". Madrid, Ariel-Banco de España.
* Gabriel Tortella (1974): "La banca española en la Restauración", 2 vols. Madrid, Banco de España.
* [[Pablo_Martín-Aceña|Pablo Martín-Aceña]] (1984): "La política monetaria en España, 1918-1935". Madrid, Instituto de Estudios Fiscales.
* "150 años del Banco de España, 1856-2006". Madrid, Banco de España.
* Pedro Tedde (1988): "El Banco de San Carlos". Madrid, Alianza-Banco de España.
* "El Banco de San Fernando". Madrid, Alianza-Banco de España.
* Teresa Tortella (2011): "El Banco de España desde dentro. Una historia a través de sus documentos". Madrid, Banco de España.
* Miguel Martorell, "Historia de la peseta: la España contemporánea a través de su moneda". Editorial Planeta S.A., ISBN 84-08-04087-1.
*Pedro Navascués Palacio, Summa Artis, ''Historia general del arte'', Arquitectura española (1808–1914), tomo XXXV. Editorial Espasa Calpe.

==外部連結==
* {{es icon}} {{en icon}} 官方網站 [https://web.archive.org/web/20090627001950/http://www.bde.es/home.htm (in Spanish)] [http://www.bde.es/homee.htm (in English)]{{Wayback|url=http://www.bde.es/homee.htm |date=20110914101515 }}

{{Central banks}}
{{歐盟成員國中央銀行}}
{{欧洲题目|中央银行}}
{{Authority control}}

[[Category:欧洲中央银行体系|Category:欧洲中央银行体系]]
[[Category:西班牙銀行|Category:西班牙銀行]]
[[Category:馬德里建築物|Category:馬德里建築物]]
[[Category:1782年成立的银行|Category:1782年成立的银行]]