'''热带森林'''是位於[[热带|热带]]的[[森林|森林]]，大致位於[[北回歸線|北回歸線]]與[[南回歸線|南回歸線]]之間。有些樹林很难被确定為热带森林。虽然[[温带|温带]]地区的森林很容易根据[[林冠|树冠]]密度进行區分，但这种方法并不适用於热带森林<ref name="Putz_etal">{{Cite journal|title=The Importance of Defining 'Forest': Tropical Forest Degradation, Deforestation, Long-term Phase Shifts, and Further Transitions|last=Putz|first=Francis E.|last2=Redford|first2=Kent H.|date=September 14, 2009|journal=Biotropica|publisher=Wiley|issue=1|doi=10.1111/j.1744-7429.2009.00567.x|volume=42|pages=10–20|issn=0006-3606}}</ref>。无论是在热带地区还是在其他地区，都没有一个单一的方法来界定什么是森林<ref name="Shvidenko_etal">Anatoly Shvidenko, Charles Victor Barber, Reidar Persson et al. 2005 "[[Millennium_Ecosystem_Assessment|Millennium Ecosystem Assessment]]." Ecosystems and human wellbeing: a framework for assessment Washington, DC: Island Press</ref>。不過热带森林確實分佈广泛，它的面積將近世界森林總面積的一半<ref> D’Annunzio, Rémi, Lindquist, Erik J., MacDicken, Kenneth G. 2017 “Global forest land-use change from 1990 to 2010:an update to a global remote sensing survey of forests Forest Resource Assessment Working Paper 187” FAO, Rome.</ref>，為45%，其次是寒带、温带和亚热带地区的森林<ref>{{Cite book|last=|first=|title=Global Forest Resources Assessment 2020 – Key findings|publisher=FAO|year=2020|isbn=978-92-5-132581-0|location=|pages=|doi=10.4060/ca8753en}}</ref>。2018年有超过360万公顷的热带原始森林消失<ref>[https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2019/may/06/human-society-under-urgent-threat-loss-earth-natural-life-un-report Human society under urgent threat from loss of Earth's natural life. Scientists reveal 1 million species at risk of extinction in damning UN report] {{Wayback|url=https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2019/may/06/human-society-under-urgent-threat-loss-earth-natural-life-un-report |date=20190614160705 }} 6 May 2019 Guardian</ref>。

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部链接 ==
* {{Commons category inline}}

[[Category:各类型的正式指定森林|Category:各类型的正式指定森林]]
[[Category:原始森林|Category:原始森林]]
[[Category:森林|Category:森林]]
[[Category:生物多樣性|Category:生物多樣性]]
[[Category:生態系統|Category:生態系統]]