{{Speciesbox
 | image= Neotricula aperta shell.png
 | image_caption=隶属新拟钉螺属的开放新拟钉螺的贝壳特写
 | image2= Neotricula aperta.jpg
 | image2_caption=''Neotricula aperta'' on a stone
 |taxon=Neotricula aperta
 |authority=([[Prasong_Temcharoen|Temcharoen]], 1971){{r|Temcharoen 1971}}
 |synonyms=
*''Lithoglyphopsis aperta''
*''Neotricula apart''（拼寫錯誤）
}}
'''新拟钉螺属'''（學名：''{{lang|la|Neotricula}}''）{{r|Kang 1984}}是一個{{tsl|en|freshwater snail|淡水螺}}的[[屬|屬]]，屬於[[盖螺科|盖螺科]]的[[水生動物|淡水生]][[腹足纲|腹足纲]][[软体动物|软体动物]]。
'''开放新拟钉螺'''（學名：''{{lang|la|Neotricula aperta}}''）是本屬的其中一個物種。
過往這個物種是本屬唯一的一個物種；但現時此屬已有至少兩個已描述的物種{{r|Kameda 2011}}；
另外，[[景洪新拟钉螺|景洪新拟钉螺]]（學名：''{{lang|la|Neotricula jinghongensis}}'' {{small|(Guo & Gu, 1985)}}）原來亦為本屬物種，今已獨立成一個新的屬{{r|WoRMS_1253365}}<ref> Davis, G.M.; Guo, Y.H.; Hoagland, K.E.; Chen, P.L.; Zheng, L.C.; Yang, H.M.; Chen, D.J.; Zhou, Y.F. (1986). Anatomy and systematics of Triculini (Prosobranchia: Pomatiopsidae: Triculinae), freshwater snails from Yunnan, China, with descriptions of new species. Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 138(2): 466-575</ref>。

开放新拟钉螺已知是{{tsl|en|Schistosoma mekongi|湄公血吸蟲}}（''{{tsl|en|Schistosoma mekongi}}''）的唯一[[中間宿主|中間宿主]]，可引致{{tsl|en|Mekong schistosomiasis|湄公血吸蟲病}}<ref>Attwood S. W., Fatih F. A. & Upatham E. S. (2008). "DNA-Sequence Variation Among ''Schistosoma mekongi'' Populations and Related Taxa; Phylogeography and the Current Distribution of Asian Schistosomiasis". ''{{tsl|en|PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases|}}'' '''2'''(3): e200. {{doi|10.1371/journal.pntd.0000200}}.</ref><ref name="Attwood 2012"/>。

==分佈==
本物種目前只見於[[中南半島|中南半島]]上流經[[柬埔寨|柬埔寨]]、[[老撾|老撾]]及[[泰國|泰國]]的九條河流流域的31個地點{{r|Attwood 2012}}，已知的分佈範圍從柬埔寨[[湄公河|湄公河]]流域的[[桔井市|桔井市]] 南部至老撾中部[[凯山丰威汉市|凯山丰威汉市]]的{{tsl|en|Kong Lor|}}{{r|Attwood 2012}}。

本物種見於下列地點：
* {{tsl|en|List of non-marine molluscs of Cambodia|柬埔寨淡水貝列表|柬埔寨}}[[湄公河|湄公河]]沿岸<ref name="Hebner">{{cite book |chapter-url=http://www.stanford.edu/group/parasites/ParaSites2009/RebeccaHebner_SchistoMekongi/RebeccaHebner_SchistoMekongi.htm |first=Rebecca |last=Hebner |chapter=ParaSite: Schistosoma Mekongi |title=Parasites and Pestilence |access-date=2018-09-08 |language=en }}</ref>及東北部[[公河|公河]]上游河谷{{r|Attwood 2012}}
* {{tsl|en|List of non-marine molluscs of Laos|老撾淡水貝列表|老撾}}<ref name="Attwood 2012"/>
* {{tsl|en|List of non-marine molluscs of Thailand|泰國淡水貝列表|泰國}}東北部<ref name="Attwood 2012"/>

本物種的{{tsl|en|type locality (biology)|模式產地}}位於老撾{{tsl|en|Khong Island|}}的[[Ban_Na|Ban Na]]{{r|Davis 1976}}。{{TransH}}

== Description ==
A detailed account of the anatomy of ''Neotricula aperta'' was given by Davis et al. in 1976.<ref name="Davis 1976">Davis G. M., Kitikoon V. & Temcharoen P. (1976). "Monograph on “''Lithoglyphopsis''” ''aperta'', the snail host of Mekong river schistosomiasis". ''<!-- [[Malacologia|Malacologia]] -->[[Malacologia|Malacologia]]'' '''15''': [https://archive.org/stream/malacologia157576inst#page/240/mode/2up 241]-287.</ref>

Three strains of ''Neotricula aperta'' have been recognized (called α, β and γ), on the basis of shell size and body pigmentation.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/> Although all three strains are susceptible to ''{{tsl|en|Schistosoma mekongi|}}'' (γ> > β > α), only the γ-strain is epidemiologically significant.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/>

== Ecology ==
''Neotricula aperta'' is exclusively <!-- [[epilithic|epilithic]] -->[[岩生植物|岩生植物]] or <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[epixylic|epixylic]] (on rotting wood).<ref name="Attwood 2012"/> ''Neotricula aperta'' is found only in shallow areas (typically 0.5 to 3 m deep) of the Mekong river and some of its tributaries.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/> The snails are restricted to areas where the current is moderate (around 2 × 10<sup>3</sup> m<sup>3</sup>s<sup>−1</sup>), the water is clear and the bed rock forms (almost flat) platforms where agal <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[aufwuch|aufwuch]]s is extensive.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/> Such conditions exist only during the <!-- [[dry_season|dry season]] -->[[旱季|旱季]] in the lower Mekong (March to May) and so ''Neotricula aperta'' populations persist mostly by recruitment (from eggs laid on stones in the previous year) or re-colonization from other rivers, and transmission of ''{{tsl|en|Schistosoma mekongi|}}'' is seasonal.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/> <!-- [[Population_density|Population density]] -->[[人口密度|人口密度]] can reach up to 4734 snails per m².<ref name="Attwood 2012"/>

In addition, ''Neotricula aperta'' is not known from waters of low <!-- [[Electrical_conductivity|conductivity]] -->[[電導率|電導率]] or pH and is <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[calciphilic|calciphilic]]; the pH of all ''Neotricula aperta'' habitats sampled to date is > 7.5 and the river systems in which the snails are found have always been those draining <!-- [[karst|karst]] -->[[喀斯特地形|喀斯特地形]] areas.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/> More recently, ''Neotricula aperta'' has been found in the primary streams emerging from karst springs, close to the origins of the streams.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/> The snail ''Neotricula aperta'' requires hard water to provide the <!-- [[calcium|calcium]] -->[[钙|钙]] needed  for rapid <!-- [[gastropod_shell|shell]] -->[[手性_(腹足綱)|手性 (腹足綱)]] growth as populations re-establish in the Mekong river each year following the annual flood.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/>

The ecological requirements of ''Neotricula aperta'' indicate that this snail will not become established in the reservoirs or downstream channels of dams in the region and that flooding of habitats by impoundment will eliminate all ''Neotricula aperta'' populations from the affected area.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/>

''Neotricula aperta'' grazes the algal <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[epilithon|epilithon]] and therefore, unlike species such as ''{{tsl|en|Biomphalaria|}}'' (African vector of other kind of schistosomiasis), cannot survive in areas where sediment is depositing and preventing the growth of the algae upon which it feeds.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/> Indeed, ecological studies of ''Neotricula aperta'' have shown that this snail is found only on stones covered with fine sediments and that this species is highly sensitive to {{tsl|en|Siltation|}}.<ref name="Attwood 2012"/>
{{TransF}}

==參考文獻==
{{Reflist|refs=
<ref name="Attwood 2012">Attwood S. W. & Upatham E. S. (2012). "Observations on ''Neotricula aperta'' (Gastropoda: Pomatiopsidae) population densities in Thailand and central Laos: implications for the spread of Mekong schistosomiasis". ''{{tsl|en|Parasites & Vectors|}}'' '''5''': 126. {{doi|10.1186/1756-3305-5-126}}.</ref>
<ref name="Kang 1984">{{cite journal
 |url=http://qdhys.ijournal.cn/hyyhz/ch/reader/create_pdf.aspx?file_no=19840403
 |author=[[康在彬|康在彬]] |year=1984
 |title=湖北拟钉螺属三新种
 |journal=《[[海洋与湖沼|海洋与湖沼]]》
 |volume=15 |issue=4 |pages=299-309 |language=zh-hans,en }}</ref>
<ref name="Temcharoen 1971">{{cite journal
 |last=Temcharoen |first=P. |year=1971
 |title=New aquatic molluscs from Laos
 |journal=''[[軟體動物科學檔案庫|Archiv für Molluskenkunde]]''
 |volume=101 |pages=91-109 }}</ref>
}}

==延伸閱讀==
*Attwood S. W. (1994). "Rates of recruitment among populations of the freshwater snail ''Neotricula aperta'' (Temcharoen) in North East Thailand". ''{{tsl|en|Journal of Molluscan Studies|}}'' '''60'''(2): 197-200. {{doi|10.1093/mollus/60.2.197}}.
*Attwood S. W. (1995). "The effect of substratum grade on the distribution of the freshwater snail ''y-Neotricula aperta'' (Temcharoen), with notes on the sizes of particles ingested". ''{{tsl|en|Journal of Molluscan Studies|}}'' '''61'''(1): 133-138. {{doi|10.1093/mollus/61.1.133}}.
*Attwood S. W., Upatham E. S. & Southgate V. R. (2001). "The detection of ''Schistosoma mekongi'' infections in a natural population of ''Neotricula aperta'' at Khong Island, Laos, and the control of Mekong schistosomiasis". ''{{tsl|en|Journal of Molluscan Studies|}}'' '''67'''(3): 400-405. {{doi|10.1093/mollus/67.3.400}}.

==外部連結==
{{Taxonbar|from=Q16986390}}
[[Category:新拟钉螺属|aperta]]
[[Category:Gastropods_described_in_1971|Category:Gastropods described in 1971]]