{{Infobox language
| name        = 沃洛夫語
| nativename  = Wolof<!--Wölöf-- they didn't say anything abt "ö"?!-->
| familycolor = Niger-Congo
| states      = {{flagcountry|Senegal}}
{{flagcountry|Gambia}}<br />
{{flagcountry|Mauritania}}
| region      = [[西非|西非]]
| speakers    = 320萬（母語）<br>
350萬（第二語言） <ref>Gordon, Raymond G., Jr. (ed.), 2005. Ethnologue: Languages of the World, Fifteenth edition. Dallas, Tex.: SIL International. Online version: http://www.ethnologue.com/, wolof entry [http://www.ethnologue.com/show_language.asp?code=wol here]</ref>
| fam2        = [[大西洋-刚果语族|大西洋-刚果语族]]
| fam3        = [[Senegal-Guinea_languages|Senegal–Guinea]]
| fam4        = [[Senegambian_languages|Senegambian]]
| fam5        = [[Fula-Wolof_languages|Fula-Wolof]]
| agency      = CLAD ([[Centre_de_linguistique_appliquée_de_Dakar|Centre de linguistique appliquée de Dakar]])
| iso1        = wo
| iso2        = wol
| lc1  = wol | ld1  = Wolof
| lc2  = wof | ld2  = Gambian Wolof
}}
'''沃洛夫語'''（Wolof），亦作'''渥魯夫語'''，是[[沃洛夫人|沃洛夫人]]的民族语，使用者主要分布在[[冈比亚|冈比亚]]、[[塞内加尔|塞内加尔]]、[[毛里塔尼亚|毛里塔尼亚]]。像它的近亲[[富拉语|富拉语]]一样，它属于尼日尔-刚果语系大西洋语支。与非洲大多数语言不同，它不是声调语言。

沃洛夫语是塞内加尔使用最广的语言，不仅为沃洛夫人使用，也被其它塞内加尔人使用。沃洛夫方言在城乡之间、国家之间有极大差异。达喀尔沃洛夫语是城市沃洛夫语、法语、阿拉伯语和少量英语的混合体，在塞内加尔首都使用。

与大多数非洲语言不同，沃洛夫语对西欧语言有一定影响，英文banana（香蕉）就是借自沃洛夫语，而yam（薯蕷）在沃洛夫语中是吃东西的意思。

==文法==
===數詞===
====基數詞====

{| class="wikitable" border=1 cellpadding=3 cellspacing=0 style="border-collapse: collapse;"
|0
|'''tus''' / '''neen''' / '''zéro''' （法語） / '''sero''' / '''dara''' （無）
|-
|1
|'''benn'''
|-
|2
|'''ñaar''' / '''yaar'''
|-
|3
|'''ñett''' / '''ñatt''' / '''yett''' / '''yatt'''
|-
|4
|'''ñeent''' / '''ñenent'''
|-
|5
|'''juróom'''
|-
|6
|'''juróom-benn'''
|-
|7
|'''juróom-ñaar'''
|-
|8
|'''juróom-ñett'''
|-
|9
|'''juróom-ñeent'''
|-
|10
|'''fukk'''
|-
|11
|'''fukk ak benn'''
|-
|12
|'''fukk ak ñaar'''
|-
|13
|'''fukk ak ñett'''
|-
|14
|'''fukk ak ñeent'''
|-
|15
|'''fukk ak juróom'''
|-
|16
|'''fukk ak juróom-benn'''
|-
|17
|'''fukk ak juróom-ñaar'''
|-
|18
|'''fukk ak juróom-ñett'''
|-
|19
|'''fukk ak juróom-ñeent'''
|-
|20
|'''ñaar-fukk'''
|-
|26
|'''ñaar-fukk ak juróom-benn'''
|-
|30
|'''ñett-fukk''' / '''fanweer'''
|-
|40
|'''ñeent-fukk'''
|-
|50
|'''juróom-fukk'''
|-
|60
|'''juróom-benn-fukk'''
|-
|66
|'''juróom-benn-fukk ak juróom-benn'''
|-
|70
|'''juróom-ñaar-fukk'''
|-
|80
|'''juróom-ñett-fukk'''
|-
|90
|'''juróom-ñeent-fukk'''
|-
|100
|'''téeméer'''
|-
|101
|'''téeméer ak benn'''
|-
|106
|'''téeméer ak juróom-benn'''
|-
|110
|'''téeméer ak fukk'''
|-
|200
|'''ñaari téeméer'''
|-
|300
|'''ñetti téeméer'''
|-
|400
|'''ñeenti téeméer'''
|-
|500
|'''juróomi téeméer'''
|-
|600
|'''juróom-benni téeméer'''
|-
|700
|'''juróom-ñaari téeméer'''
|-
|800
|'''juróom-ñetti téeméer'''
|-
|900
|'''juróom-ñeenti téeméer'''
|-
|1000
|'''junni''' / '''junne'''
|-
|1100
|'''junni ak téeméer'''
|-
|1600
|'''junni ak juróom-benni téeméer'''
|-
|1945
|'''junni ak juróom-ñeenti téeméer ak ñeent-fukk ak juróom'''
|-
|1969
|'''junni ak juróom-ñeenti téeméer ak juróom-benn-fukk ak juróom-ñeent'''
|-
|2000
|'''ñaari junni'''
|-
|3000
|'''ñetti junni'''
|-
|4000
|'''ñeenti junni'''
|-
|5000
|'''juróomi junni'''
|-
|6000
|'''juróom-benni junni'''
|-
|7000
|'''juróom-ñaari junni'''
|-
|8000
|'''juróom-ñetti junni'''
|-
|9000
|'''juróom-ñeenti junni'''
|-
|10000
|'''fukki junni'''
|-
|100000
|'''téeméeri junni'''
|-
|1000000
|'''tamndareet''' / '''million'''
|-
|}

====序數詞====

{| class="wikitable" border=1 cellpadding=3 cellspacing=0 style="border-collapse: collapse;"
|1st
|''' bu njëk '''
|-
|2nd
|''' ñaaréélu'''
|-
|3rd
|''' ñettéélu'''
|-
|4th
|'''ñeentéélu'''
|-
|5th
|''' juróoméélu'''
|-
|6th
|'''juróom-bennéélu'''
|-
|7th
|'''juróom-ñaaréélu'''
|-
|8th
|'''juróom-ñettéélu'''
|-
|9th
|'''juróom-ñeentéélu'''
|-
|10th
|'''fukkéélu'''
|-
|}
{| class="wikitable"

{| class="wikitable"


==註釋==
{{reflist}}

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|indent=yes|2}}
;語言學
* Omar Ka: ''Wolof Phonology and Morphology''.  University Press of America, Lanham, Maryland, 1994, {{ISBN|0-8191-9288-0}}.
* Mamadou Cissé: ''« Graphical borrowing and African realities »'' in Revue du Musée National d'Ethnologie d'Osaka, Japan, June 2000.
* Mamadou Cissé: ''"Revisiter "La grammaire de la langue wolof" d'A. Kobes (1869), ou étude critique d'un pan de l'histoire de la grammaire du wolof''.", in Sudlangues [https://web.archive.org/web/20061216084113/http://www.sudlangues.sn/article82.html] February 2005
* Leigh Swigart: ''Two codes or one? The insiders’ view and the description of codeswitching in Dakar'', in Carol M. Eastman, Codeswitching. Clevedon/Philadelphia: Multilingual Matters, {{ISBN|1-85359-167-X}}.
* Fiona McLaughlin: ''Dakar Wolof and the configuration of an urban identity'', Journal of African Cultural Studies 14/2, 2001, p. 153-172
* Gabriele Aïscha Bichler: ''Bejo, Curay und Bin-bim? Die Sprache und Kultur der Wolof im Senegal (mit angeschlossenem Lehrbuch Wolof)'', Europäische Hochschulschriften Band 90, Peter Lang Verlagsgruppe, Frankfurt am Main, Germany 2003, {{ISBN|3-631-39815-8}}.

;文法
* Pathé Diagne: ''Grammaire de Wolof Moderne''.  Présence Africaine, Paris, France, 1971. 
* Pape Amadou Gaye: ''Wolof - An Audio-Aural Approach''.  United States Peace Corps, 1980.
* Amar Samb: ''Initiation a la Grammaire Wolof''.  [[IFAN|Institut Fondamental d'Afrique Noire]],  Université de Dakar, Ifan-Dakar, Sénegal, 1983.
* Michael Franke: ''Kauderwelsch, Wolof für den Senegal - Wort für Wort''. Reise Know-How Verlag, Bielefeld, Germany 2002, {{ISBN|3-89416-280-5}}.
* Michael Franke, Jean Léopold Diouf, Konstantin Pozdniakov: ''Le wolof de poche - Kit de conversation'' (Phrasebook/grammar with 1 CD).  Assimil, Chennevières-sur-Marne, France, 2004 {{ISBN|978-2-7005-4020-8}}.
* Jean-Léopold Diouf, Marina Yaguello: ''J'apprends le Wolof - Damay jàng wolof'' (1 textbook with 4 audio cassettes). Karthala, Paris, France 1991, {{ISBN|2-86537-287-1}}.
* Michel Malherbe, Cheikh Sall: ''Parlons Wolof - Langue et culture''. L'Harmattan, Paris, France 1989, {{ISBN|2-7384-0383-2}} (this book uses a simplified orthography which is not compliant with the CLAD standards; a CD is available).
* Jean-Léopold Diouf: ''Grammaire du wolof contemporain''. Karthala, Paris, France 2003, {{ISBN|2-84586-267-9}}.
* Fallou Ngom: ''Wolof''. Verlag LINCOM, Munich, Germany 2003, {{ISBN|3-89586-616-4}}.
* Sana Camara: ''Wolof Lexicon and Grammar'', NALRC Press, 2006, {{ISBN|978-1-59703-012-0}}.

;字詞典
*Diouf, Jean-Leopold:Dictionaire wolof-français et français-wolof,Karthala,2003
* Mamadou Cissé: ''Dictionnaire Français-Wolof'', L’Asiathèque, Paris, 1998, {{ISBN|2-911053-43-5}} 
* Arame Fal, Rosine Santos, Jean Léonce Doneux: ''Dictionnaire wolof-français (suivi d'un index français-wolof)''. Karthala, Paris, France 1990, {{ISBN|2-86537-233-2}}.
* Pamela Munro, Dieynaba Gaye: ''Ay Baati Wolof - A Wolof Dictionary''.  UCLA Occasional Papers in Linguistics, No. 19, Los Angeles, California, 1997.
* Peace Corps The Gambia: ''Wollof-English Dictionary'', PO Box 582, Banjul, The Gambia, 1995 (no ISBN, available as [https://web.archive.org/web/20100105025744/http://www.africanculture.dk/gambia/ftp/wollof.pdf PDF file] via the internet; this book refers solely to the dialect spoken in the Gambia and does not use the standard orthography of CLAD). 
* Nyima Kantorek: ''Wolof Dictionary & Phrasebook'', Hippocrene Books, 2005, {{ISBN|0-7818-1086-8}} (this book refers predominantly to the dialect spoken in the Gambia and does not use the standard orthography of CLAD).
* Sana Camara: ''Wolof Lexicon and Grammar'', NALRC Press, 2006, {{ISBN|978-1-59703-012-0}}. 

;官方文件
*[Senegal, Government of], Décret n° 71-566 du 21 mai 1971 relatif à la transcription des langues nationales, modifié par décret n° 72-702 du 16 juin 1972.
*[Senegal, Government of], Décrets n° 75-1026 du 10 octobre 1975 et n° 85-1232 du 20 novembre 1985 relatifs à l'orthographe et à la séparation des mots en wolof.
*[Senegal, Government of], Décret n° 2005-992 du 21 octobre 2005 relatif à l'orthographe et à la séparation des mots en wolof.
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
{{InterWiki|code=wo}}
*[http://www.ethnologue.com/show_language.asp?code=wol Ethnologue Site on the Wolof Language] {{Wayback|url=http://www.ethnologue.com/show_language.asp?code=wol |date=20121004215158 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20040413040841/http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Wolof-english/ Wolof English Dictionary] (this dictionary mixes Senagalese and Gambian variants without notice, and does not use a standard orthography)
*[http://books.google.es/books?id=GeDqX9GrUwMC&printsec=frontcover&dq=dictionnaire+wolof A French-Wolof-French dictionary] {{Wayback|url=http://books.google.es/books?id=GeDqX9GrUwMC&printsec=frontcover&dq=dictionnaire+wolof |date=20120224215730 }} partially available at Google Books.
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20060502043425/http://www.firicat.com/ Firicat.com] (an online Wolof to English translator; you can add your own words to this dictionary; refers almost exclusively to the Gambian variants and does not use a standard orthography)

{{非洲聯盟語言}}

{{Authority control}}
[[Category:非洲语言|Category:非洲语言]]

[[hr:Gambijski_wolof_(jezik)|hr:Gambijski wolof (jezik)]]