{{expert|time=2014-12-22T21:54:08+00:00}}
'''串联重复'''（{{lang-en|Tandem repeats}}）是指[[DNA|DNA]]中的一个或多个核苷酸前后相连接的重复<ref>{{MeshName|Tandem+Repeat}}</ref>。

一个例子：
: ATTCGATTCGATTCG

其中的ATTCG在这里重复了三次。


几种蛋白质结构域也是由串联重复的氨基酸序列产生，如{{le|犰狳重复|Armadillo repeats}}。但很少有串联重复出现在体内的蛋白质中，多数为人工设计的蛋白<ref>{{cite journal |author=Jorda J, Xue B, Uversky VN, Kajava AV |title=Protein tandem repeats - the more perfect, the less structured |journal=The FEBS Journal |volume=277 |issue=12 |pages=2673–82 | date=June  2010 |pmid=20553501 |pmc=2928880 |doi=10.1111/j.1742-464X.2010.07684.x}}</ref>。

==术语==
当重复核苷酸数在10到60之间时，被称为小衛星，低于10则被称为[[短串联重复|短串联重复]]或[[微衛星|微衛星]]。

重复核苷酸只有两个时，称为“双核苷酸重复”（如：ACACACAC…）。{{le|遗传性非息肉病性结直肠癌|Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer}}的{{le|微卫星不稳定性|microsatellite instability}}常为这种类型<ref>{{cite journal |author=Oki E, Oda S, Maehara Y, Sugimachi K |title=Mutated gene-specific phenotypes of dinucleotide repeat instability in human colorectal carcinoma cell lines deficient in DNA mismatch repair |journal=Oncogene |volume=18 |issue=12 |pages=2143–7 |pmid=10321739 |doi=10.1038/sj.onc.1202583|date=March 1999}}</ref>。

当重复核苷酸有三个时，称为“三核苷酸重复”（如：CAGCAGCAGCAG…）在这一区域的异常常导致{{le|三核苷酸重复疾病|Trinucleotide repeat disorder}}。

当重复单元的拷贝数在人群中存在不同时。被称为[[可变数目串联重复|可变数目串联重复序列]]（VNTR）<ref>{{MeshName|Variable+Number+of+Tandem+Repeats}}</ref>。

==应用==
串联重复可以作为确定个体的遗传特征的一种描述模式，在确定[[亲子关系|亲子关系]]中非常有用。[[微衛星|短串联重复序列]]可用于一些{{le|系谱DNA检验|genealogical DNA test}}。

[[DNA|DNA]] is examined from ''[[Microsatellite_(genetics)|microsatellite]]s'' within the chromosomal DNA.  [[Minisatellite|Minisatellite]] is another way of saying special regions of the [[locus_(genetics)|loci]].  [[Polymerase_chain_reaction|Polymerase chain reaction]] (or PCR) is performed on the minisatellite areas.  The PCR must be performed on each organism being tested.  The amplified material is then run through [[electrophoresis|electrophoresis]].  By checking the percentage of bands that match, parentage is determined.

Polymorphic tandem repeats (alias VNTRs) are also present in microorganisms and can be used to trace the origin of an outbreak. The corresponding assay in which a collection of VNTRs is typed to characterize a strain is most often called [[MLVA|MLVA]] (Multiple Loci VNTR Analysis).

In the field of [[Computer_Science|Computer Science]], tandem repeats in strings (e.g., DNA sequences) can be efficiently detected using [[suffix_tree|suffix tree]]s or [[suffix_array|suffix array]]s.

Studies in 2004 linked the unusual genetic plasticity of [[dog|dog]]s to mutations in tandem repeats.<ref>{{cite journal |author=Pennisi E |title=Genetics. A ruff theory of evolution: gene stutters drive dog shape |journal=Science |volume=306 |issue=5705 |pages=2172 |pmid=15618495 |doi=10.1126/science.306.5705.2172|date=December 2004}}</ref>

==参考文献==<!-- ZoolRes26:555. -->
{{reflist}}

== 外部链接 ==
*例子：
** [http://www.rvc.ac.uk/review/DNA_1/4_VNTRs.cfm VNTRs]{{Wayback|url=http://www.rvc.ac.uk/review/DNA_1/4_VNTRs.cfm |date=20201109215619 }} - info and animated example
*数据库：
** [https://web.archive.org/web/20141225151444/http://tandemrepeat.u-psud.fr/   The Microorganisms Tandem Repeats Database]
** [http://www.cstl.nist.gov/div831/strbase/ Short Tandem Repeats Database]{{Wayback|url=http://www.cstl.nist.gov/div831/strbase/ |date=20170308193634 }}
*搜索工具：
** [http://tandem.bu.edu/trf/trf.html Tandem Repeats Finder]{{Wayback|url=http://tandem.bu.edu/trf/trf.html |date=20201024023114 }} 
** [http://bioinfo.lifl.fr/mreps Mreps]{{Wayback|url=http://bioinfo.lifl.fr/mreps |date=20110929023604 }}
** [http://atgc.lirmm.fr/star STAR]{{Wayback|url=http://atgc.lirmm.fr/star |date=20080616094750 }}
** [https://web.archive.org/web/20080905145716/http://tandem.sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu/Tandem/ TRED - Tandem Repeats over the Edit Distance]
** [https://web.archive.org/web/20060712070732/http://strand.imb.ac.ru/swan/index.html TandemSWAN] 
** [https://web.archive.org/web/20060709203109/http://www.biophp.org/minitools/microsatellite_repeats_finder/demo.php   Microsatellite repeats finder]
** [https://web.archive.org/web/20060404015058/http://bioinf.dms.med.uniroma1.it/JSTRING/ JSTRING - Java Search for Tandem Repeats in genomes]
** [http://www.rub.de/spezzoo/cm/cm_phobos.htm Phobos - a tandem repeat search tool for perfect and imperfect repeats - the maximum pattern size depends only on computational power]{{Wayback|url=http://www.rub.de/spezzoo/cm/cm_phobos.htm |date=20190921140945 }}
** [https://web.archive.org/web/20140606101328/http://ugene.unipro.ru/documentation/manual/plugins/repeat_finder.html#tandem-repeats UGENE]  - an ultra fast and memory efficient open-source tandem repeats finder implementation.

{{重复序列}}

[[Category:重複DNA序列|Category:重複DNA序列]]