{{Automatic taxobox
| taxon = Actinoplanes
| authority = Couch 1950
| type species = 菲律宾游动放线菌<br>''Actinoplanes philippinensis''
| type species authority = Couch 1950
| synonyms = 
* ''Ampullariella Couch 1964
* ''Amorphosporangium Couch 1963
}}
'''游动放线菌属'''（[[学名|学名]]：{{lang|la|''Actinoplanes''}}）为[[小单孢菌科|小单孢菌科]]的一[[属|属]]细菌。此属的模式种为菲律宾游动放线菌(''Actinoplanes philippinensis'')。

==下属物种==
* ''Actinoplanes abujensis'' Sazak et al. 2012
* ''Actinoplanes armeniacus'' Kalakoutskii and Kusnetsov 1964，异名
* ''Actinoplanes atraurantiacusv'' Zhang et al. 2012
* ''Actinoplanes auranticolor'' (Couch 1963) Stackebrandt and Kroppenstedt 1988
* ''Actinoplanes bogorensis'' corrig. Nurkanto et al. 2016
* ''Actinoplanes bogoriensis'' Nurkanto et al. 2016，拼写错误
* ''Actinoplanes brasiliensis'' Thiemann et al. 1969
* ''Actinoplanes caeruleus'' Horan and Brodsky 1986，异名
* ''Actinoplanes campanulatus'' (Couch 1963) Stackebrandt and Kroppenstedt 1988
* ''Actinoplanes capillaceus'' Matsumoto et al. 2001
* ''Actinoplanes cibodasensis'' Nurkanto et al. 2015
* ''Actinoplanes consettensis'' Goodfellow et al. 1990
* ''Actinoplanes couchii'' Kämpfer et al. 2007
* ''Actinoplanes cyaneus'' Terekhova et al. 1987
* ''Actinoplanes deccanensis'' Parenti et al. 1975
* ''Actinoplanes derwentensis'' Goodfellow et al. 1990
* ''Actinoplanes deserti'' Habib et al. 2019
* ''Actinoplanes digitatis'' (Couch 1963) Stackebrandt and Kroppenstedt 1988
* ''Actinoplanes durhamensis'' Goodfellow et al. 1990
* ''Actinoplanes ferrugineus'' Palleroni 1979 (Approved Lists 1980)
* ''Actinoplanes friuliensis'' Aretz et al. 2001
* ''Actinoplanes globisporus'' (Thiemann 1967) Stackebrandt and Kroppenstedt 1988
* ''Actinoplanes humidus'' Goodfellow et al. 1990
* ''Actinoplanes ianthinogenes'' (ex Coronelli et al. 1974) Tamura et al. 2011
* ''Actinoplanes italicus'' Beretta 1973 (Approved Lists 1980)
* ''Actinoplanes lichenis'' Phongsopitanun et al. 2016
* ''Actinoplanes liguriensis'' Wink et al. 2006
* ''Actinoplanes lobatus'' (Couch 1963) Stackebrandt and Kroppenstedt 1988
* [[珞珈山游动放线菌|珞珈山游动放线菌]] ''Actinoplanes luojiashanensis''
* ''Actinoplanes luteus'' Suriyachadkun et al. 2015
* ''Actinoplanes lutulentus'' Gao et al. 2014
* ''Actinoplanes minutisporangius'' Ruan et al. 1986，异名
* ''Actinoplanes missouriensis'' Couch 1963
* [[日本游动放线菌|日本游动放线菌]] ''Actinoplanes nipponensis'' Wink et al. 2014
* ''Actinoplanes octamycinicus'' corrig. (ex Gauze et al. 1979) Tamura et al. 2011
* ''Actinoplanes palleronii'' Goodfellow et al. 1990
* [[菲律宾游动放线菌|菲律宾游动放线菌]] ''Actinoplanes philippinensis'' Couch 1950
* ''Actinoplanes ramoplaninifer'' Marcone et al. 2017
* ''Actinoplanes rectilineatus'' Lechevalier and Lechevalier 1975 (Approved Lists 1980)
* ''Actinoplanes regularis'' (Couch 1963) Stackebrandt and Kroppenstedt 1988
* ''Actinoplanes rhizophilus'' He et al. 2015
* ''Actinoplanes rishiriensis'' Yamamura et al. 2012
* ''Actinoplanes sediminis'' Qu et al. 2018
* ''Actinoplanes siamensis'' Suriyachadkun et al. 2013
* ''Actinoplanes sichuanensis'' Sun et al. 2009
* ''Actinoplanes subglobosus'' Ngaemthao et al. 2016
* ''Actinoplanes teichomyceticus'' Wink et al. 2006
* ''Actinoplanes tereljensis'' Ara et al. 2010
* ''Actinoplanes toevensis'' Ara et al. 2010
* ''Actinoplanes tropicalis'' Nurkanto et al. 2015
* ''Actinoplanes utahensis'' Couch 1963
* [[新疆游动放线菌|新疆游动放线菌]] ''Actinoplanes xinjiangensis'' Sun et al. 2009

==參考文獻==
{{reflist}}
* '''LPSN''' - List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature

{{taxonbar}}

[[Category:_小单孢菌科|*]]
[[Category:_1950年描述的分类群|Y]]