{{expand|time=2010-03-16T12:27:01+00:00}}
'''席文'''（Nathan Sivin，1931年5月11日）是[[美国|美国]][[科技史|科技史]]学家。他和[[李约瑟|李约瑟]]一样，以研究[[中国科技史|中国科技史]]著名。席文现为美国[[宾夕法尼亚大学|宾夕法尼亚大学]]教授，专业为中国科技史、中国医学史、中国哲学和中国宗教。
个人主页：http://ccat.sas.upenn.edu/~nsivin/index.html

==著作==
*1968. ''Chinese Alchemy: Preliminary Studies. Harvard Monographs in the History of Science'', 1. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. Chinese translation, Taipei: National Translation Bureau, 1973. 
*1969. ''Cosmos and Computation in Early Chinese Mathematical Astronomy''. Leiden: E. J. Brill. Separate book version of 1969 essay (see below). 
*1973. ''Chinese Science: Explorations of an Ancient Tradition''. MIT East Asian Science Series, 2. Edited by Shigeru Nakayama & N.S. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Includes an introduction and three articles by N.S., listed below. 
*1977. ''Science and Technology in East Asia''. Articles from Isis, 1913–1975. Selected and edited by N.S. New York: Science History Publications. Includes an introduction and an article by N.S., listed below. 
*1979. ''Astronomy in Contemporary China''. A Trip Report of the American Astronomy Delegation. By ten members of the Delegation. CSCPRC Reports, 7. Washington, DC: National Academy of Sciences. Includes several contributions by N.S., including a chapter on the history of astronomy. 
*1980. ''Science and Civilisation in China. Vol. 5, Part 4. Chemical Discovery''. By Joseph Needham, Lu Gwei-djen, Ho Ping-yu, & N.S. Cambridge, England: At the University Press. Includes a section by N.S. on the theoretical background of laboratory alchemy. 
*1984. ''Chūgoku no Kopernikusu (Copernicus in China)'', trans. Nakayama Shigeru & Ushiyama Teruyo 牛山輝代. Selected essays by N.S., 1. Tokyo: Shisakusha.
*1985. ''Chūgoku no renkinjutsu to ijutsu (Chinese alchemy and medicine)'', trans. Nakayama & Ushiyama. Idem, 2. 
*1987. ''Traditional Medicine in Contemporary China''. A Partial Translation of Revised Outline of Chinese Medicine (1972) with an Introductory Study on Change in Present-day and Early Medicine. Science, Medicine and Technology in East Asia, 2. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan, Center for Chinese Studies. 
*1988. ''Contemporary Atlas of China''. Boston: Houghton Mifflin. Consulting Editor. German translation: Bildatlas China. München: Südwest, 1989. 
*1989. ''Science and Medicine in Twentieth-Century China: Research and Education'', ed. John Z. Bowers, William J. Hess, & N.S. Science, Medicine, and Technology in East Asia, 3. Ann Arbor: Center for Chinese Studies, University of Michigan. 
*1995. ''Science in Ancient China. Researches and Reflections''. Variorum Collected Studies Series. Aldershot, Hants: Variorum.
*1995. ''Medicine, Philosophy and Religion in Ancient China. Researches and Reflections''. Variorum Collected Studies Series. Idem.
*1996. ''History of Humanity. Scientific and Cultural Development''. Vol. III. From the Seventh Century BC to the Seventh Century AD, ed. J. Herrmann & E. Zürcher. Paris: UNESCO. Integrated contributions on science, medicine, and technology. 
*2000. ''Science and Civilisation in China. Vol. 6, pt. 6. Medicine''. Edited and with an Introduction by N.S. Cambridge University Press.
*2002. ''The Way and the Word. Science and Medicine in Early Greece and China'' (with Sir Geoffrey Lloyd). Yale University Press.

==外部链接==
* [http://ccat.sas.upenn.edu/~nsivin/ 席文]，宾夕法尼亚大学
{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Sivin, Nathan}}
[[Category:美國漢學家|Category:美國漢學家]]
[[Category:技术史学家|Category:技术史学家]]
[[Category:麻省理工學院校友|Category:麻省理工學院校友]]
[[Category:哈佛大學校友|Category:哈佛大學校友]]