{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Dakotadon
| fossil_range = 早[[白堊紀|白堊紀]],{{fossil_range|巴列姆階}}
| image = Dakotadon skull.jpg
| image_caption = 
| authority = [[葛瑞格利·保羅|Paul]], 2008
| type_species = '''拉科塔達科塔齒龍<br>''Dakotadon lakotaensis'''''
| type_species_authority = ([[大衛·威顯穆沛|Weishampel]] and Bjork, 1989)
}}

'''達科塔齒龍屬'''（[[學名|學名]]：''Dakotadon''）是種[[禽龍類|禽龍類]][[恐龍|恐龍]]，化石是個部份頭骨，發現於[[美國|美國]][[南達科塔州|南達科塔州]]的[[拉科塔組|拉科塔組]]（Lakota Formation）。

在1989年，[[大衛·威顯穆沛|大衛·威顯穆沛]]（David B. Weishampel）與[[菲利浦·比約克|菲利浦·比約克]]（Philip R. Bjork ）將這些化石命名為[[禽龍|拉科塔禽龍]]（''I. lakotaensis''）<ref name=WB89>{{en}}{{cite journal |last=Weishampel |first=David B. |coauthors=Philip R. Bjork |year=1989|title=The first indisputable remains of ''Iguanodon'' (Ornithischia: Ornithopoda) from North America: ''Iguanodon lakotaensis'', sp. nov. |journal=Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology |volume=9 |issue=1 |pages=56–66}}</ref>。某些研究人員提出異議，認為拉科塔禽龍比貝尼薩爾禽龍（''I. bernissartensis''）更為原始，並可能是[[眾神花園龍|眾神花園龍]]的近親<ref name=BC07>{{en}}Brill, Kathleen and Kenneth Carpenter. 2007. "A description of a new ornithopod from the Lytle Member of the Purgatoire Formation (Lower Cretaceous) and a reassessment of the skull of ''Camptosaurus''."  ''Horns and Beaks'', 49–67.</ref>。[[大衛·諾曼|大衛·諾曼]]（David Norman）則認為拉科塔禽龍是貝尼薩爾禽龍的一個異名<ref name=DBN98>{{en}}{{cite journal|last=Norman| first=David B.| title=On Asian ornithopods (Dinosauria, Ornithischia). 3. A new species of iguanodontid dinosaur|journal=Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society|volume=122 |issue=1–2 |pages=291–348 |doi=10.1006/zjls.1997.0122|date=January 1998}}</ref>。

在2008年，[[葛瑞格利·保羅|葛瑞格利·保羅]]（Gregory S. Paul）重新研究禽龍的各種，將拉科塔禽龍獨立為新屬，'''拉科塔達科塔齒龍'''（''D. lakotaensis''）<ref name=GSP08>{{en}}{{cite journal |last=Paul |first=Gregory S. |year=2008 |title=A revised taxonomy of the iguanodont dinosaur genera and species |journal=Cretaceous Research |volume=29 |issue=2 |pages=192–216 |doi=10.1016/j.cretres.2007.04.009}}</ref>。

==參考資料==
{{reflist}}

{{Ornithopoda|O.}}
{{Taxonbar|from=Q955193}}

[[Category:下白堊紀恐龍|D]]
[[Category:禽龍類|D]]
[[Category:北美洲恐龍|D]]