{{multiple issues|
{{expand|time=2012-10-20T08:35:32+00:00}}
{{inappropriate tone|time=2012-10-20T08:35:32+00:00}}
{{unreferenced|time=2012-10-20T08:35:32+00:00}}
}}
{{Infobox anthem
|title         = Himno Nacional del Perú
|english_title = Peruvian National Anthem
|image         =
|image_size    =
|caption       =
|prefix        = National
|country       = {{PER}}
|author        = [[José_de_la_Torre_Ugarte|José de la Torre Ugarte]] <br> Diego Mauricio Castro Soto 
|lyrics_date   =
|composer      = [[José_Bernardo_Alcedo|José Bernardo Alcedo]]
|music_date    =
|adopted       = 1821
|until         =
|sound         = United States Navy Band - Marcha Nacional del Perú.ogg
|sound_title   = The National Anthem of Peru
}}

'''秘魯國歌'''([[西班牙語|西班牙語]]:Himno Nacional del Perú)，採用於1821年。

==歌詞==
{| border=0
|-
| valign=top |
'''''原文歌詞'''''

;Coro
:Somos libres
:seámoslo siempre, seámoslo siempre
:y antes niegue sus luces
:sus luces, sus luces el Sol!
:Que faltemos al voto solemne
:que la patria al Eterno elevó,
:Que faltemos al voto solemne
:que la patria al Eterno elevó.
:Que faltemos al voto solemne
:que la patria al Eterno elevo.

;I ''(former official sung verse)''
:Largo tiempo el peruano oprimido
:la ominosa cadena arrastró
:condenado a una cruel servidumbre
:largo tiempo, largo tiempo,
:largo tiempo en silencio gimió.
:Mas apenas el grito sagrado
:¡Libertad! en sus costas se oyó
:la indolencia del esclavo sacude
:la humillada, la humillada,
:la humillada cerviz levantó,
:la humillada cerviz levantó, cerviz levantó...

;Coro

;II
:Y al estruendo de broncas cadenas
:que escuchamos tres siglos de horror,
:de los libres al grito sagrado
:que oyó atónito el mundo, cesó.
:Por doquier San Martín inflamado,
:libertad, libertad, pronunció,
:y meciendo su base los Andes
:la anunciaron, también, a una voz.

;III
:Con su influjo los pueblos despiertan
:y cual rayo corrió la opinión;
:desde el istmo a las tierras del fuego,
:desde el fuego a la helada región.
:Todos juran romper el enlace
:que Natura a ambos mundos negó,
:y quebrar ese cetro que España
:reclinaba orgullosa en los dos.

;IV
:Lima cumple ese voto solemne,
:y, severa, su enojo mostró,
:al tirano impotente lanzando,
:que intentaba alargar su opresión.
:A su esfuerzo saltaron los grillos
:y los surcos que en sí reparó,
:le atizaron el odio y venganza
:que heredara de su Inca y Señor.

;V
:Compatriotas, no más verla esclava.
:Si humillada tres siglos gimió,
:para siempre jurémosla libre,
:manteniendo su propio esplendor.
:Nuestros brazos, hasta hoy desarmados
:estén siempre cebando el cañón,
:que algún día las playas de Iberia
:sentirán de su estruendo el terror.

;VI ''(Former fifth verse)''
:Excitemos los celos de España
:pues presiente con mengua y furor
:que en concurso de grandes naciones
:nuestra patria entrará en parangón.
:En la lista que de éstas se forme
:llenaremos primero el reglón
:que el tirano ambicioso Iberino,
:que la América toda asoló.

;VII ''(Present Official sung verse)''
:En su cima los Andes sostengan
:la bandera o pendón bicolor,
:que a los siglos anuncie el esfuerzo
:que ser libres, que ser libres
:que ser libres por siempre nos dio.
:A su sombra vivamos tranquilos,
:y al nacer por sus cumbres el sol,
:renovemos el gran juramento
:que rendimos, que rendimos
:que rendimos al Dios de Jacob,
:que rendimos al Dios de Jacob, al Dios del Jacob....

;Coro
| valign=top |
'''''英語翻譯版本'''''

;Chorus
:We are free!
:May we always be so, may we always be so!
:and let the lights be denied before
:the lights, the lights...of the sun!
:Before we break the solemn vow
:which the fatherland elevated to the Eternal,
:Before we break the solemn vow
:which the fatherland elevated to the Eternal.
:Before we break the solemn vow
:which the fatherland elevated to the Eternal.

;I ''(former official sung verse)''
:For a long time the oppressed Peruvian
:the ominous chain he dragged
:Condemned to a cruel servitude
:for a long time, for a long time
:for a long time he quietly moaned
:But as soon as the sacred cry
:Freedom! in its coasts was heard
:the slaves' indolence shakes
:the humiliated, the humiliated,
:the humiliated neck raised up,
:the humiliated neck raised up, neck raised up...

;Chorus

;II
:Now the roar of rough chains
:that we had heard for three centuries of horror
:from the free, at the sacred cry
:that the world heard astonished, ceased.
:Everywhere the inflamed San Martín
:"Freedom", "Freedom" he pronounced;
:and the Andes, rocking their base,
:announced it as well, in unison.

;III
:With its influx the peoples woke up,
:and like lighting ran the opinion;
:from the [[Isthmus_of_Panama|Isthmus]] to the [[Tierra_del_Fuego|Tierra del Fuego]],
:and from Tierra del Fuego to the icy regions.
:Everyone vowed to break the link
:that Nature denied to both worlds,
:and break the sceptre that Spain
:had reclined, proudly, on both.

;IV
:Lima fulfilled this solemn vow,
:and, severe, its anger showed
:by throwing out the powerless tyrant,
:who had been trying to extend his oppression.
:On its endeavor the shackles cracked,
:and the furrows that it had repaired in itself
:stirred up its hatred and vengeance,
:inherited from its Inca and Lord.

;V
:Countrymen, may we see it a slave no more.
:If for three centuries it moaned, humiliated,
:forever may we swear it'd be free,
:maintaining its own splendor.
:Our arms, until today unarmed,
:be they always readying the cannon,
:that some day the beaches of Iberia
:will feel the horror of its roar.

;VI ''(Former fifth verse)''
:May we arouse the jealousy of Spain
:since it has a premonition, with want and furor,
:that in a contest of great nations
:our country will enter in comparison.
:On the list formed by these
:we shall fill the line first,
:ahead of the ambitious Iberian tyrant,
:who devastated all of America.

;VII ''(Present Official sung verse)''
:On its summits may the Andes sustain
:the two-color flag or standard,
:may it announce to the centuries the effort
:that being free, that being free
:that being free gave us forever.
:Under its shadow may we live calmly
:and, at birth of the sun in its summits,
:may we all renew the great oath
:that we rendered, that we rendered
:that we rendered to the God of Jacob,
:that we rendered to the God of Jacob, the God of Jacob.....

;Chorus
|}

==中文歌詞==
我們是自由的！

讓我們永遠和現在一樣

願讓太陽拒絕再發出它的亮光

若我們莊嚴的誓言沒有照辦

那是我們國家對上帝承當。

若我們莊嚴的誓言沒有照辦

那是我們國家對上帝承當。

若我們莊嚴的誓言沒有照辦

那是我們國家對上帝承當。

秘魯人民長久以來多受苦難

厄運的鎖鍊扣在身上

判他們做牛做馬多悲慘

長久以來默默承受一聲不響

可是一旦將自由來吶喊

神聖的呼聲響起在它的海岸

把奴隸的惰性驅散

屈辱的人們終於把頭昂！

屈辱的人們終於把頭昂！

屈辱的人們終於把頭昂！

把頭昂！

{{美洲各國家和地區国歌}}
[[Category:國歌|Category:國歌]]