{{no footnotes|time=2018-08-07T09:44:50+00:00}}
'''亚历山大·希斯录'''（Alexander Hislopeel，{{bd|1807年||1865年|3月17日|}}）<!--  ，Born at [[Duns|Duns]], [[Berwickshire|Berwickshire]]; died [[Arbroath|Arbroath]]) --> 是一名[[苏格兰自由教会|苏格兰自由教会]][[牧师|牧师]]，以批评[[罗马天主教|罗马天主教]]著称。他的父亲史蒂芬·希斯录（Stephen Hislop，1837年逝世）的职业是工头，也是苏格兰长老会的一位长老。亚历山大·希斯录弟弟的名字也叫史蒂芬·希斯录（1817–1863），在当时因为到耶路撒冷传教和研究博物学而广为人知。

他写过几本著作，其中最著名的一本是《[[两个巴比伦|两个巴比伦]]》。 

==两个巴比伦==
{{main|两个巴比伦}}

此书最初在1853年出版，当时是一本小册子，以后在1858年经过增订成书。

<!-- He claimed 罗马天主教 was a Babylonian [[mystery_religion|mystery cult]], and pagan, whereas Protestants worshipped the true [[Jesus|Jesus]] and the true [[God|God]]. He contended that Roman Catholic religious practices are actually pagan practices grafted onto true [[Christianity|Christianity]] during the reign of [[Constantine_I_(emperor)|Constantine]]. At this point, he alleged, the merger between the Roman state religion and its adoration of the mother and child was transferred to Christianity, merging Christian characters with pagan mythology. The Goddess was renamed ''[[Mary,_the_mother_of_Jesus|Mary]]'', and Jesus was the renamed ''[[Jupiter-Puer|Jupiter-Puer]]'', or "Jupiter the Boy". -->

<!-- Hislop's theory was that the goddess, in Rome called [[Venus_(mythology)|Venus]] or [[Fortuna_(mythology)|Fortuna]], was the Roman name of the more ancient Babylonian cult of [[Ishtar|Ishtar]], whose origins began with a blonde-haired and blue-eyed woman named [[Semiramis|Semiramis]].

According to Hislop, Semiramis was an exceedingly beautiful woman, who gave birth to a son named [[Tammuz|Tammuz]], was instrumental as the queen, and wife of [[Nimrod|Nimrod]] the founder of [[Babylon|Babylon]], and its religion, complete with a pseudo-[[Virgin_Birth|Virgin Birth]]. This he called a foreshadowing of the birth of Christ, prompted by Satan. Later, Nimrod was killed, and Semiramis, pregnant with his child, claimed the child was Nimrod reborn. -->

<!-- Hislop claimed that the cult and worship of Semiramis spread globally, her name changing with the culture. In Egypt she was [[Isis|Isis]], in Greece and Rome she was called Venus, [[Diana_(goddess)|Diana]], [[Athena|Athena]], and a host of other names, but was always prayed to and central to the faith which was based on Babylonian mystery religion.

Then, according to Hislop, Constantine, though claiming to convert to Christianity, remained pagan but renamed the gods and goddesses with Christian names to merge the two faiths for his political advantage, under Satan's guidance. -->

<!-- The book has been severely criticized by many of being insidiously hateful, and in much of it supporting evidence being found in ante -nicene testimonies, as well as Josephus, and other ancient varifications as some existing evidence: for instance, the Roman state religion before Christianity did worship a central Mother Goddess, Venus and Cupid. Yet many women named Semiramis lived centuries after Nimrod,  and not all could be the famed original, and some legend seems to mix them.  Hislop also makes some questionable linguistic connections and fanciful word plays, e.g. the letters IHS on [[Host_(Holy_Communion)|hosts]] in [[Catholic|Catholic]] [[Holy_Communion|Holy Communion]] are alleged to stand for Egyptian deities [[Isis|Isis]], [[Horus|Horus]] and [[Set_(mythology)|Seth]], but in reality they are an [[abbreviation|abbreviation]] for Ihsous, the Latin spelling of Jesus's name in Greek (Ιησους), although popularly, they stand for the Latin ''Iesus Hominum Salvator'' meaning [[Jesus|Jesus]], Savior of Mankind. -->

<!-- Despite this, and the fact that his book, if proven true, would discredit Christian traditions as a whole, since the concepts that it attacks in Roman Catholicism are shared by some Protestants, this book was, and still remains in some circles, a staple of [[Anti-Catholicism|anti-Catholic]] polemic. Hislop is a favorite source of [[Jack_Chick|Jack Chick]], who published reprints of his book, and [[Dave_Hunt|Dave Hunt]], who on occasion alludes to his work. While strong criticisms of this book have been published, it is still considered by many as a definitive work of Protestant Christian [[apologetics|apologetics]]. -->
==外部链接==
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20050203181254/http://philologos.org/__eb-ttb/ ''两个巴比伦''在线阅读]
*[http://www.tektonics.org/guest/hislop01.html Critical Evaluation of ''The Two Babylons'', by Alexander Hislop] {{Wayback|url=http://www.tektonics.org/guest/hislop01.html |date=20080827210232 }}
*[[Ralph_Woodrow|Ralph Woodrow]], ''The Babylon Connection?'', 1997, ISBN 0-916938-17-4 (critique from former advocate).
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20060516021135/http://www.hayterz.bravehost.com/f149.htm Genealogical page on Jamie Hayter's family history site] ''Note: shows different date of birth for Alexander Hislop - clarification being sought''

==著作==
<!-- (Sources of information include [http://copac.ac.uk COPAC] )
* Christ's Crown and Covenant: or national covenanting essentially connected with national revival (Arbroath and Edinburgh, 1860)
* Infant Baptism, according to the Word of God and confession of faith. Being a review, in five letters, of the new theory of Professor Lumsden, as advocated in his treatise entitled, "Infant baptism: its nature and objects." (Edinburgh, 1856)
* The Light of Prophecy let in on the dark places of the Papacy (exposition of 2 Thess 2: 3–12) (Edinburgh, 1846)
* The Moral Identity of Babylon and Rome (London, 1855)
* The Red Republic; or Scarlet Coloured Beast of the Apocalypse (Edinburgh, 1849)
* The Rev. E.B. Elliott and the "Red Republic" (Arbroath, circa 1850)#
* The Scriptural Principles of the Solemn League and Covenant : in their bearing on the present state of the Episcopal churches (Glasgow, 1858)
* The Trial of Bishop Forbes (A lecture delivered in East Free Church, Arbroath) (Edinburgh, 1860)
* Truth and Peace (in reply to a pamphlet, entitled "Charity and mutual forbearance" by "Irenicus") (Arbroath, 1858)
* The Two Babylons; or, the Papal Worship proved to be the worship of Nimrod and his wife (Edinburgh, 1853 & 1858)
* Unto the Venerable the General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland : the petition of the undersigned (relates to James Lumsden on "Infant Baptism":  Hislop was head signatory of this petition) (Edinburgh, 1860) -->

==参考书目==
* Ewing, William: Annals of the Free Church of Scotland 1843–1900 (Edinburgh, 1914)
* The Monthly Record of the Free Church of Scotland, 1 April 1865, Obituary
* Dictionary of National Biography, Vol 9 (London, 1908), Article on Stephen Hislop
* Smith, George: Stephen Hislop, Pioneer Missionary & Naturalist in Central India from 1844 to 1863 (London, 1888)

{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:hislopeel}}
[[Category:英国反天主教|Category:英国反天主教]]
[[Category:蘇格蘭聖職者|Category:蘇格蘭聖職者]]
[[Category:19世纪基督教神职人员|Category:19世纪基督教神职人员]]
[[Category:苏格兰自由教会牧师|Category:苏格兰自由教会牧师]]
[[Category:基督教阴谋论者|Category:基督教阴谋论者]]
[[Category:天主教会批评者|Category:天主教会批评者]]