
希罗菲卢斯（{{lang-grc-gre|Ἡρόφιλος}}、{{IPAc-en|h|ɪ|ˈ|r|ɒ|f|ɪ|l|ə|s}}） 公元前335-280 – 公元前255，是一名[[希臘|希臘]]醫生及第一個解剖學家，出生於[[迦克墩|迦克墩]]用人脑做实验，开创了神经解剖学，在超过2000年前发现了神经系统，证明了神经丛脑部起源。他沿着脑部的光学神经追溯到了眼睛。
他还用钟表测量出了脉搏率，并把它用作一种诊断手段。
==生平==

==另见==
*[[医学和医学技术年表|医学和医学技术年表]]

==注==
{{reflist}}

==来源==
* [http://books.google.ca/books?id=rGhlIfJZkVoC von Staden H. (ed. trans.) ''Herophilos: The Art of Medicine in Early Alexandria''. Cambridge University Press, 1989 ISBN 0-521-23646-0, ISBN 978-0-521-23646-1]
*Simon Hornblower and Anthony Spawford, "Herophilos", ''The Oxford Classical Dictionary''. (New York: Oxford University Press, 1999) 699.
*"Herophilus", ''Encyclopedia of World Biography'', Supplement Vol. 25 Thomson Gale. (Michigan: Gale).
*Adrian Wills, "Herophilus, Erasistratus, and the birth of neuroscience", ''The Lancet''. (November 13, 1999): 1719 Expanded Academic ASAP. Gale, 30 Nov. 2008.
*"On the Localization of the Functions of the Brain with Special Reference to the Faculty of Language", ''Anthropological Review'', Vol. 6, (Oct., 1868) 336.
* Galen. On the natural faculties. Brock A. J. (trans.) Heinemann, London 1916. p. xii, 233

==延伸阅读==
*{{cite book|last=Dean-Jones|first=Lesley|title=Women's bodies in classical Greek science|year=1994|publisher=Clarendon Press|location=Oxford|isbn=0-19-814767-8|edition=Revised}}
*{{cite book|last=Lloyd|first=G. E. R.|title=Greek science after Aristotle|year=1973|publisher=Norton|location=New York|isbn=0-393-04371-1}}
*{{cite book|last=Lloyd|first=G. E. R.|title=Science, folklore and ideology : studies in the life sciences in ancient Greece|year=1983|publisher=Cambridge University Press|location=Cambridge|isbn=0-521-25314-4}}
*{{cite journal|last=Longrigg|first=James|title=Superlative achievement and comparative neglect: Alexandrian medical science and modern historical research|journal=History of science; an annual review of literature, research, and teaching|year=1981|volume=19|pages=155–200|pmid=11610979}}
*{{cite journal|last=Potter|first=Paul|title=Herophilus of Chalcedon: an assessment of his place in the history of anatomy|journal=Bulletin of the history of medicine|year=1976|volume=50|issue=1|pages=45–60|pmid=769875}}
*{{cite journal|last=Solmsen|first=Friedrich|title=Greek Philosophy and the Discovery of the Nerves|journal=Museum Helveticum|year=1961|volume=18|pages=150–197}}
*{{cite book|last=von Staden|first=Heinrich|title=Jewish and Christian Self-Definition: Self-Definition in the Graeco-Roman World|year=1982|publisher=SCM Press|location=London|editor1-first=Ben F. |editor1-last=Meyer|editor2-first=E. P.|editor2-last=Sanders|chapter=Hairesis and Heresy}}

{{Authority control}}

[[Category:神经科学史|Category:神经科学史]]
[[Category:古希腊医学家|Category:古希腊医学家]]