{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Haematomma
| parent authority = A.Massal., 1852
| image = Haematomma ochroleucum Golvinog.jpg
| image_caption = Haematomma ochroleucum
| type genus = 赤星衣属<br>Haematomma
| type genus authority = A. Massal.
| type species = Haematomma vulgare
| type species authority = A. Massal.
}}

'''赤星衣属'''（[[学名|学名]]：''Haematomma''），是[[茶渍目|茶渍目]][[赤星衣科|赤星衣科]]下的一个属。

==下属物种==
本属包括以下物种：<ref>{{cite web |title=Haematomma A.Massal., 1852 |url=https://www.gbif.org/species/2607742 |website=GBIF}}</ref>
* ''Haematomma accolens'' (Stirt.) Hillmann
* ''Haematomma africanum'' (J. Steiner) C.W. Dodge
* ''Haematomma alborussulum'' (Nyl.) S. Ekman & J. Gerasimova
* ''Haematomma caperaticum'' Brodo, W.L. Culb. & C.F. Culb.
* ''Haematomma collatum'' (Stirt.) C.W. Dodge
* ''Haematomma eremaeum'' R.W. Rogers
* [[赤星衣|赤星衣]] ''Haemantorma erythromma''
* ''Haematomma fenzlianum'' A. Massal.
* ''Haematomma flexuosum'' Hillmann
* ''Haematomma fluorescens'' Kalb & Staiger
* ''Haematomma gallowayi'' Brodo
* ''Haematomma infuscum'' (Stirt.) R.W. Rogers
* [[马托赤星衣|马托赤星衣]] ''Haematomma matogrossense''
* [[砖壁赤星衣|砖壁赤星衣]] ''Haematomma muriformis''
* ''Haematomma nicoyense'' Nelsen, Lücking & Chaves
* ''Haematomma nothofagi'' Kalb & Staiger
* ''Haematomma ochroleucum''
* ''Haematomma parda'' Aptroot
* [[博松氏赤星衣|博松氏赤星衣]] ''Haematomma persoonii'' (Fée) A. Massal.
* [[白赤星衣|白赤星衣]] ''Haematomma puniceum'' (Ach.) A. Massal.
* [[赤星衣|赤星衣]] ''Haematomma rufidulum'' (Fée) A. Massal.
* ''Haematomma similis'' Bagl.
* ''Haematomma sorediatum'' R.W. Rogers
* ''Haematomma staigeriae'' Nelsen, Lücking & L. Umaña
* ''Haematomma stevensiae'' R.W. Rogers
* ''Haematomma vulgare''A. Massal.
* [[瓦特氏赤星衣|瓦特氏赤星衣]] ''Haematomma wattii''

==参考文献==
{{reflist}}

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_赤星衣属|*]]
[[Category:_赤星衣科|C]]
[[Category:_1852年描述的分类群|C]]