{{expand|time=2018-06-19T04:41:36+00:00}}
{{Automatic taxobox 
 | taxon = Trichogramma
 | subdivision_ranks = 種
 | subdivision = 超過230種，詳見內文。
 | display_parents = 3
}}

'''赤眼蜂屬'''（學名：{{lang|la| Trichogramma}}）是[[膜翅目|膜翅目]][[細腰亞目|細腰亞目]][[寄生蜂下目|寄生蜂下目]]之下的[[小蜂总科|小蜂总科]][[赤眼蜂科|赤眼蜂科]]的成員之一，其物種皆為{{link-en|多食性|polyphagous}}的微小[[拟寄生物|拟寄生物]]，寄生於其牠昆蟲的蟲卵中<ref name=Flanders1960>{{cite journal | last1 = Flanders | first1 = S | last2 = Quednau | first2 = W | year = 1960 | title = Taxonomy of the genus ''Trichogramma'' (Hymenoptera, Chalcidoidea, Trichogrammatidae) | url = | journal = BioControl | volume = 5 | issue = | pages = 285–294 | doi=10.1007/bf02372951}}</ref>。赤眼蜂屬是[[赤眼蜂科|赤眼蜂科]]約80個屬的其中一個，在全世界包括超過200個物種<ref name=consoli>Consoli FL, Parra JRP, Zucchi RA (2010) 'Egg Parasitoids in Agroecosystems with Emphasis on Trichogramma.' (Springer).</ref><ref name=knutson>Knutson A (2005) 'The ''Trichogramma'' Manual: A guide to the use of ''Trichogramma'' for Biological Control with Special Reference to Augmentative Releases for Control of Bollworm and Budworm in Cotton.' (Texas Agricultural Extension Service).</ref><ref name=sumer>{{cite journal | last1 = Sumer | first1 = F | last2 = Tuncbilek | first2 = AS | last3 = Oztemiz | first3 = S | last4 = Pintureau | first4 = B | last5 = Rugman-Jones | first5 = P | last6 = Stouthamer | first6 = R | year = 2009 | title = A molecular key to the common species of ''Trichogramma'' of the Mediterranean region | url = | journal = BioControl | volume = 54 | issue = | pages = 617–624 | doi=10.1007/s10526-009-9219-8}}</ref>。成蟲大多小於1毫米，會產卵於宿主卵内，幼蟲取食卵黄、化蛹並引發宿主死亡。成蟲羽化後咬破寄主卵殼而出。

儘管現時在全世界有多種用於[[生物防治|生物防治]]的物種，本屬物種仍然是研究得最詳盡的一類<ref name=upadhay>Upadhyay RK, Mukerji KG, Chamola BP (2001) 'Biocontrol potential and its Exploitation in Sustainable Agriculture: Insect Pests.' (Kluwer Academic/ Plenum Publishers).</ref>，有超過一千份相關的文獻與本屬物種相關，也是目前世上於生物防治中 最常用的物種<ref name=knuston>Knutson A (2005) 'The Trichogramma Manual: A guide to the use of Trichogramma for Biological Control with Special Reference to Augmentative Releases for Control of bollworm and Budworm in Cotton.' (Texas Agricultural Extension Service).</ref>。 ''Trichogramma'' spp. are unique in approaching the size limit of how small an insect can be, which would be determined by how few neurons they can fit in their central nervous systems, yet exhibiting a complex behavior to sustain their lives. These wasps have less than 10,000 neurons, which is 1/100th that of the next smallest insect.<ref>[http://www.mymultiplesclerosis.co.uk/wonders/trichogramma.html Macadamia Nut Plantation, Trichogramma]</ref>

==寄生性==
To locate host eggs, adult females use chemical and visual signals, such as egg shape and colour.<ref name=knuston/> After she finds a suitable egg, an experienced female attempts to determine if the egg has previously been parasitized, using her ovipositor and antennal drumming (tapping on the egg surface). Females also use antennal drumming to determine the size and quality of the target egg, which determines the number of eggs the female will insert.<ref>{{cite journal |last= Klomp |first=H |last2=Teerink |first2=B.J.|last3=Wei |first3=Chun Ma |date=1979 |title=Discrimination Between Parasitized and Unparasitized Hosts in the Egg Parasite ''Trichogramma embryophagum'' (Hym.=Trichogrammatidae)=a Matter of Learning and Forgetting |url=http://booksandjournals.brillonline.com/content/journals/10.1163/002829679x00412 |journal=Netherlands Journal of Zoology |publisher= Koninklijke Brill NV |volume=30 |issue=2 |pages=254–27 |DOI=10.1163/002829679X00412 |ISSN=0028-2960  |accessdate=May 22, 2014}}</ref> A single female can parasitize up to 10 host eggs a day.

==辨識==
本屬物種體型細小，構造上亦單一，使物種間的分辨頗困難{{r|Pang & Chen 1974}}<ref name=nag>{{cite journal | last1 = Nagarkatti | first1 = S | last2 = Nagaraja | first2 = H | year = 1977 | title = Biosystematics of ''Trichogramma'' and ''Trichogrammatoidea'' species | url = | journal = Annual Review of Entomology | volume = 22 | issue = | pages = 157–176 | doi=10.1146/annurev.en.22.010177.001105}}</ref><ref name=thomson>{{cite journal | last1 = Thomson | first1 = LJ | last2 = Rundle | first2 = BJ | last3 = Carew | first3 = ME | last4 = Hoffmann | first4 = AA | year = 2003 | title = Identification and characterization of ''Trichogramma'' species from south-eastern Australia using the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS-2) region of the ribosomal gene complex | url = | journal = Entomologia Experimentalis et Applicata | volume = 106 | issue = | pages = 235–240 | doi=10.1046/j.1570-7458.2003.00029.x}}</ref>。As females are all relatively similar, taxonomists rely upon examination of males to tell the different species apart, using features of their antennae and genitalia.<ref name=nagar>{{cite journal | last1 = Nagarkatti | first1 = S | last2 = Nagaraja | first2 = H | year = 1971 | title = Redescriptions of some known species of ''Trichogramma'' (Hym., Trichogrammatidae), showing the importance of the male genitalia as a diagnostic character | url = | journal = Bulletin of Entomological Research | volume = 61 | issue = | pages = 13–31 | doi=10.1017/s0007485300057412}}</ref><ref name=polaszek>{{cite journal | last1 = Polaszek | first1 = A | last2 = Rugman-Jones | first2 = P | last3 = Stouthamer | first3 = R | last4 = Hernandez-Suarez | first4 = E | last5 = Cabello | first5 = T | last6 = Pino Pérez | first6 = M | year = 2012 | title = Molecular and morphological diagnoses of five species of ''Trichogramma'': biological control agents of ''Chrysodeixis chalcites'' (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) and ''Tuta absoluta'' (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae) in the Canary Islands | url = | journal = BioControl | volume = 57 | issue = | pages = 21–35 | doi=10.1007/s10526-011-9361-y}}</ref>

The first description of a ''Trichogramma'' species was in North America in 1871, by Charles V. Riley. He described the tiny wasps that emerged from eggs of the viceroy butterfly as ''Trichogramma minutum''.<ref name=knutson/> In <!-- [[Taxonomy_(biology)|taxonomy]] -->[[生物分类学|生物分类学]], original specimens are very important, as they are the basis of reference for subsequent descriptions of species. The original specimens, however, were lost. Riley also described a second species in 1879 as ''Trichogramma pretiosum'', but these specimens were also lost. To correct these errors, entomologists returned to the areas where Riley originally found the species and obtained {{link-en||neotype|neotype}} specimens of ''T. minutum'' and ''T. pretiosum''. These specimens are now preserved properly in the <!-- [[United_States_National_Museum|United States National Museum]] -->[[史密森尼学会|史密森尼学会]].<ref name=knutson/> Currently, the number of ''Trichogramma'' species is over 200, but as of 1960, only some 40 species of ''Trichogramma'' had been described.<ref>[http://www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/research/projects/chalcidoids/]</ref>

==赤眼蜂屬物種體內的沃尔巴克氏体==
赤眼蜂屬物種體內有[[沃尔巴克氏体|沃尔巴克氏体]]（''[[Wolbachia|Wolbachia]]''），是一種分佈廣泛的細菌，專門感染昆蟲的內臟，特別是生殖系統的器官<ref name = Grenier>{{cite journal | last1 = Grenier | first1 = Simon | year = 1998 | title = Successful horizontal transfer of ''Wolbachia'' symbionts between Trichogramma wasps | journal = Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences | volume = 265 | pages = 1441–1445 | doi=10.1098/rspb.1998.0455|display-authors=etal| pmc = 1689218 }}</ref>。這些沃尔巴克氏体在感染了昆蟲後，會改變其宿主交配時的成功率{{r|Grenier}}。
Through a series of manipulations, ''Wolbachia-''infected hosts transmit this intracellular bacterium to uninfected individuals.<ref name="Grenier"/><ref name=Huigens2004>{{cite journal | last1 = Huigens | first1 = M. E. | year = 2004 | title = Natural interspecific and intraspecific horizontal transfer of parthenogenesis–inducing wolbachia in trichogramma wasps | journal = Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences | volume = 271 | pages = 509–515 | doi=10.1098/rspb.2003.2640|display-authors=etal| pmc = 1691627 }}</ref> These manipulations include male killing (increasing ratio of infected females that can reproduce), feminization (males become fertile females), <!-- [[parthenogenesis|parthenogenesis]] -->[[单性生殖|单性生殖]], and {{link-en||cytoplasmic incompatibility|cytoplasmic incompatibility}}.<ref name=Huigens2004/> Horizontal transfer of parthenogenesis-inducing ''Wolbachia'', which has been observed in ''Trichogramma'' wasps, causes infected females to asexually produce fertile females and nonfunctional males.<ref name=Bourtzis>{{cite journal | last1= Bourtzis |  first1 = Kostas | last2= O'Neill | first2= Scott | year = 1998 | title =  ''Wolbachia'' Infections and Arthropod Reproduction | journal = BioScience | volume = 48 | pages = 287–293 | doi=10.2307/1313355}}</ref> The effects of this include potential speciation of ''Trichogramma'', if ''Wolbachia'' is maintained long enough for genetic divergence to occur and for a new species of asexual wasps to become reproductively isolated.<ref name="Bourtzis"/>

Transmission of the bacterium through horizontal transfer has been observed within the same species and among different species of ''Trichogramma'', including ''T. kaykai'', ''T. deion, T. pretiosum,'' and'' T. atopovirilia''; however, limitations to transmission exist.<ref name=Huigens2004/> ''In vitro'' successful horizontal transfer is uncommon within ''Trichogramma'', which suggests that the density of ''Wolbachia'' must be relatively high inside of the hosts' ovaries.<ref name=Huigens2004/> Cytoplasmic incompatibility of the host and bacterium can also be the source of this unsuccessful transfer in-vitro.<ref name=Huigens2004/> These limitations ''in vitro'' suggest that in nature, horizontal transfer by parthenogenesis-inducing ''Wolbachia'' may be a difficult and rare phenomenon. However, when looking at the ''Wolbachia''-host associations, the ''Trichogramma-Wolbachia'' form a monophyletic group based on several ''Wolbachia''-specific genes, which may be explained by horizontal transfer of ''Wolbachia'' between different species.<ref name=Huigens2004/> Therefore, although interspecific horizontal transfer of ''Wolbachia'' is limited ''in vitro'', it is likely to occur quite frequently in nature and is not well understood yet.

The effects of ''Wolbachia'' in ''Trichogramma'' have  several evolutionary implications. Commonly, uninfected wasps are unable to breed with infected wasps.<ref name=":0">{{Cite journal|title = Evolutionary consequences of Wolbachia infections|journal = Trends in Genetics|date = 2003-04-01|issn = 0168-9525|pmid = 12683975|pages = 217–223|volume = 19|issue = 4|doi = 10.1016/S0168-9525(03)00024-6|first = Sylvain|last = Charlat|first2 = Gregory D. D.|last2 = Hurst|first3 = Hervé|last3 = Merçot}}</ref> Many generations of reproductive isolation of these different groups may result in speciation.<ref name=":0"/> In addition, some hosts can evolve with a dependency on ''Wolbachia'' for core reproductive functions, such as <!-- [[oogenesis|oogenesis]] -->[[卵子生成|卵子生成]], so that eventually an infection is a requirement for successful reproduction.<ref name=":0" /> Finally, ''Wolbachia'' can influence gender determination in its hosts so that more females are successfully born. This results in a reversal in <!-- [[sexual_selection|sexual selection]] -->[[性選擇|性選擇]], where females must compete for male mates, which has evolutionary implications as it exposes different phenotypes to natural selection.<ref name=":0" />

== Biological control ==
''Trichogramma'' spp. have been used for control of lepidopteran pests for many years. They can be considered the ''Drosophila'' of the parasitoid world, as they have been used for inundative releases and much understanding today comes from experiments with these wasps.<ref name=smith>Smith SM (1996) Biological control with Trichogramma: advances, successes, and potential of their use. In 'Annual Review of Entomology' pp. 375-406.</ref><ref>BURGIO G., MAINI S., 1995.- Control of European corn borer in sweet corn by ''Trichogramma brassicae'' Bezd. (Hym., Trichogrammatidae).- Journal of Applied Entomology, 119 (1): 83-87.</ref>

Entomologists in the early 1900s began to rear ''Trichogramma'' spp. for biological control. ''T. minutum'' is one of the most commonly found species in Europe and was first mass reared in 1926 on eggs of ''{{link-en||Sitotroga cerealella|Sitotroga cerealella}}''.<ref name=flanders>{{cite journal | last1 = Flanders | first1 = SE | year = 1930 | title = Mass Production of Egg Parasites of the Genus ''Trichogramma'' | url = | journal = Hilgardia | volume = 4 | issue = | pages = 465–501 | doi=10.3733/hilg.v04n16p465}}</ref> ''T. minutum'' has been investigated as a method of biological control of the ''Choristoneura fumiferana'', a major pest of spruce and fir forests.<ref name="smith2">Smith, S.M.; Hubbes, M.; Carrow, J.R. 1986. [http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1439-0418.1986.tb00830.x/full#references Factors affecting inundative releases of ''Trichogramma minutum'' Ril. against the spruce budworm]. J. Appl. Entomol. 101(1):29–39.</ref>

Nine species of ''Trichogramma'' are produced commercially in insectaries around the world, with 30 countries releasing them. ''Trichogramma'' wasps are used for control on numerous crops and plants; these include cotton, sugarcane, vegetables, sugarbeets, orchards, and forests.<ref name=hassan>{{cite journal | last1 = Hassan | first1 = SA | year = 1993 | title = The mass rearing and utilization of ''Trichogramma'' to control lepidopterous pests: Achievements and outlook | url = | journal = Pesticide Science | volume = 37 | issue = | pages = 387–391 | doi=10.1002/ps.2780370412}}</ref> Some of the pests  controlled include cotton bollworm (''{{link-en||Helicoverpa armigera|Helicoverpa armigera}}''), codling moth (''{{link-en||Cydia pomonella|Cydia pomonella}}''), lightbrown apple moth (''{{link-en||Epiphyas postvittana|Epiphyas postvittana}}''), and European corn borer (''{{link-en||Ostrinia nubilalis|Ostrinia nubilalis}}'').

''Trichogramma'' species vary in their host specificity. This can lead to nontarget hosts being parasitized. This, in turn, can cause problems by reducing the amount of parasitism of the target host, and depending on the rate of parasitism, nontarget effects could be significant on nontarget host populations. Research is being done on the use of ''Trichogramma'' wasps to control populations of spruce bud moth (''{{link-en||Zeiraphera canadensis|Zeiraphera canadensis}})'', which damages white spruce trees.<ref>Turgeon, Jean J. [http://pubs.cif-ifc.org/doi/pdf/10.5558/tfc68614-5 "Status of research on the development of management tactics and strategies for the spruce bud moth in white spruce plantations"]. ''The Forestry Chronicle''. '''68''' (5): 614–622. <!-- [[Digital_object_identifier|doi]] -->[[DOI|DOI]]:[https://doi.org/10.5558%2Ftfc68614-5 10.5558/tfc68614-5].</ref>

=== Species used ===
The most commonly used species for biological control are ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_atopovirilia|T. atopovirilia]]'', ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_brevicapillum|T. brevicapillum]]'', ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_deion|T. deion]]'', ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_exiguum|T. exiguum]]'', ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_fuentesi|T. fuentesi]]'', ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_minutum|T. minutum]]'', ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_nubilale|T. nubilale]]'', ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_platneri|T. platneri]]'', ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_pretiosum|T. pretiosum]]'', and ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_thalense|T. thalense]]''.<ref name=knutson/>

==''T. pretiosum''==

''T. pretiosum'' is the most widely distributed species in North America.<ref name=knutson/> It is a more generalized parasitoid, able to parasitise a range of different species. It has been the focus of many research studies and has been successfully reared on 18 genera of Lepidoptera. ''T. pretiosum'' was introduced into Australia in the 1970s as part of the Ord River Irrigation Area IPM scheme.<ref name=davies>{{cite journal | last1 = Davies | first1 = AP | last2 = Zalucki | first2 = MP | year = 2008 | title = Collection of ''Trichogramma'' Westwood (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) from tropical northern Australia: a survey of egg parasitoids for potential pest insect biological control in regions of proposed agricultural expansion | url = | journal = Australian Journal of Entomology | volume = 47 | issue = | pages = 160–167 | doi=10.1111/j.1440-6055.2008.00644.x}}</ref><ref name=davieset>{{cite journal | last1 = Davies | first1 = AP | last2 = Pufke | first2 = US | last3 = Zalucki | first3 = MP | year = 2011 | title = Spatio-temporal variation in ''Helicoverpa'' egg parasitism by ''Trichogramma'' in a tropical Bt-transgenic cotton landscape | url = | journal = Agricultural and Forest Entomology | volume = 13 | issue = | pages = 247–258 | doi=10.1111/j.1461-9563.2010.00512.x}}</ref>

==''T. carverae''==

''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_carverae|Trichogramma carverae]]'' is mainly used for <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[light_brown_apple_moth|light brown apple moth]] and <!-- 页面不存在 -->[[codling_moth|codling moth]] control, and is predominately used in orchards.<ref name=llewellyn>Llewellyn R (2002) ''The good bug book: beneficial organisms commercially available in Australia and New Zealand for biological pest control.' (Integrated Pest Management Pty Ltd).</ref> In Australia, ''T. carverae'' is used for biological control of light brown apple moth in vineyards. Though Australia has its own native ''Trichogramma'' species, not much work has been undertaken to use them commercially for biological control within Australia.<ref name=glenn>{{cite journal | last1 = Glenn | first1 = DC | last2 = Hercus | first2 = MJ | last3 = Hoffmann | first3 = AA | year = 1997 | title = Characterizing ''Trichogramma'' (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) species for biocontrol of light brown apple moth (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) in grapevines in Australia | url = | journal = Annals of the Entomological Society of America | volume = 90 | issue = | pages = 128–137 }}</ref>

Light brown apple moth is common throughout Australia and is polyphagous on more than 80 native and introduced species. The larvae cause the most damage, especially to grape berries, as their feeding provides sites for bunch rot to occur.<ref>{{cite journal | last1 = Glenn | first1 = DC | last2 = Hoffmann | first2 = AA | year = 1997 | title = Developing a commercially viable system for biological control of light brown apple moth (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) in grapes using endemic ''Trichogramma'' (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) | url = | journal = Journal of Economic Entomology | volume = 90 | issue = | pages = 370–382 }}</ref> Losses in the crops can amount up to $2000/ha in one season. It is very predominant in areas such as the {{link-en||Yarra Valley|Yarra Valley}}. Insecticide use is not a choice method for most growers, who prefer a more natural means of controlling pests. As a result, ''Trichogramma'' wasps were considered a good candidate for biological control, even more so as the moth larvae are difficult to control with insecticide. Moreover, light brown apple moths are relatively vulnerable to egg parasitism, with their eggs being laid in masses of 20-50 on the upper surfaces of basal leaves in grapevines.

==部分物種==
以下譯名參照[[龐飛雄|龐飛雄]]及[[陳泰魯|陳泰魯]] (1974)使用的名稱{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}：
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_aomoriense|Trichogramma aomoriense]]''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_atopovirilia|Trichogramma atopovirilia]]''
* [[澳洲赤眼蜂|澳洲赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_australicum|Trichogramma australicum]]'' {{small|Giraulf}}：見於[[中国|中国]]{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}。
* ''{{link-en|Trichogramma brassicae|Trichogramma brassicae}}''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_brevicapillum|Trichogramma brevicapillum]]''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_carverae|Trichogramma carverae]]''
* [[螟黃赤眼蜂|螟黃赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_chilonis|Trichogramma chilonis]]''{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* [[舟蛾赤眼蜂|舟蛾赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_closterae|Trichogramma closterae]]'' {{small|Pang & Chen 1974}}：見於中国{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_deion|Trichogramma deion]]''
* [[松毛蟲赤眼蜂|松毛蟲赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_dendrolimi|Trichogramma dendrolimi]]'' {{small|Matsumura}}：見於中国{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}。
* [[食胚赤眼蜂|食胚赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_embryophagum|Trichogramma embryophagum]]'' {{small|(Hartig)}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}
* [[暗黑赤眼蜂|暗黑赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_euproctidis|Trichogramma euproctidis]]'' {{small|(Giraut)}}：見於中国{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}。
* [[廣赤眼蜂|廣赤眼蜂]] ''{{link-en|Trichogramma evanescens|Trichogramma evanescens}}'' {{small|[[John_O._Westwood|Westwood]], 1833}}：見於中国{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}。
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_exiguum|Trichogramma exiguum]]''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_falx|Trichogramma falx]]''
* [[暗褐赤眼蜂|暗褐赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_fasciatum|Trichogramma fasciatum]]'' {{small|(Perkins)}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_fuentesi|Trichogramma fuentesi]]''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_funiculatum|Trichogramma funiculatum]]''
* [[稻螟赤眼蜂|稻螟赤眼蜂]] ''{{link-en|Trichogramma japonicum|Trichogramma japonicum}}'' {{small|Ashmead}}：見於中国{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}。
* ''[[Trichogramma_jezoensis|Trichogramma jezoensis]]''{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* ''[[Trichogramma_koehleri|Trichogramma koehleri]]'' {{small|Blanchard}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* [[粘虫赤眼蜂|粘虫赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_leucaniae|Trichogramma leucaniae]]'' {{small|Pang & Chen, 1974}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}
* ''[[Trichogramma_luteum|Trichogramma luteum]]''{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* [[舌突赤眼蜂|舌突赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_lingulatum|Trichogramma lingulatum]]'' {{small|Pang & Chen, 1974}}{{r|Pang & Chen, 1974|page1=441}}
* [[毛利赤眼鋒|毛利赤眼鋒]] ''[[Trichogramma_maori|Trichogramma maori]]''{{r|NZ}}
* [[微小赤眼鋒|微小赤眼鋒]] ''[[Trichogramma_minutum|Trichogramma minutum]]'' {{small|Riley}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_nubilale|Trichogramma nubilale]]''
* [[玉米螟赤眼蜂|玉米螟赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_ostriniae|Trichogramma ostriniae]]'' {{small|Pang & Chen, 1974}}
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_papilonis|Trichogramma papilonis]]''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_platneri|Trichogramma platneri]]''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_pretiosum|Trichogramma pretiosum]]''
* [[微突赤眼蜂|微突赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_raoi|Trichogramma raoi]]'' {{small|Nagaraja}}：見於中国{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}。
* [[窄突赤眼蜂|窄突赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_retorridum|Trichogramma retorridum]]'' {{small|(Giraulf)}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* [[顯棒赤眼蜂|顯棒赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_semblidis|Trichogramma semblidis]]'' {{small|(Aur.)}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}
* [[疏毛赤眼蜂|疏毛赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_semifumatum|Trichogramma semifumatum]]'' {{small|(Perkins)}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* [[凤蝶赤眼蜂|凤蝶赤眼蜂]] ''[[Trichogramma_sericini|Trichogramma sericini]]'' {{small|Pang & Chen 1974}}：見於中国{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=441}}。
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_siddiqi|Trichogramma siddiqi]]''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_thalense|Trichogramma thalense]]''
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_valentinei|Trichogramma valentinei]]''
* ''[[Trichogramma_vitripenne|Trichogramma vitripenne]]'' {{small|Walker}}{{r|Pang & Chen 1974|page1=442}}
* ''<!-- 页面不存在 -->[[Trichogramma_yawarae|Trichogramma yawarae]]''

==參考文獻==
{{Reflist|refs=
<ref name="Pang & Chen 1974">{{cite journal
 |url=http://www.cnki.com.cn/Article/CJFDTotal-KCXB197404010.htm
 |author1=[[龐飛雄|龐飛雄]] |author2=[[陳泰魯|陳泰魯]] |year=1974
 |title=中国的赤眼蜂属''Trichogramma''記述
 |journal=昆蟲學報 |volume=17 |issue=4 |pages=441-454
 |date=1974-11 |access-date=2018-06-18 |language=zh-hans }}</ref>
<ref name="Quednau 1960">{{cite book
 |last=Quednau |first=W. |year=1960 
 |chapter=Über die Identität der Trichogramma-Arten und einiger ihrer Ökotypen (Hymenoptera, Chalcidoidea, Trichogrammatidae)
 |url=https://ojs.openagrar.de/index.php/MittBBA/issue/view/591
 |title=Das Trichogramma-Problem | trans-title = 赤眼蜂屬物種的問題
 |journal=''[[聯邦農業和生物研究中心通訊|Mitteilungen aus der Biologischen Bundesanstalt für Land- und Forstwirtschaft]]'' |issn=0067-5849
 |location=Berlin-Dahlem（[[西德|西德]]）|volume=100 |pages=11-50 |language=de }}</ref>
<ref name="NZ">{{cite journal 
 |url=https://www.researchgate.net/publication/295365265_Description_of_three_new_Trichogramma_Hymenoptera_Trichogrammatidae_from_New_Zealand_and_their_relationship_to_new_world_species
 |title=Description of three new ''Trichogramma'' (Hymenoptera, Trichogrammatidae) from New Zealand and their relationship to new world species |language=en }}</ref>
}}

==外部連結==
{{commonscat|Trichogramma}}
*{{Wikispecies-inline|Trichogramma}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20090722020901/http://insects.tamu.edu/extension/bulletins/b-6071.html#trichogramma Biocontrol-oriented ''Trichogramma'' Manual]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20050717143843/http://www.dpi.qld.gov.au/cropresearch/16030.html ''Trichogramma'' Article]
* [http://trihograma.wix.com/engl#!about-us/c205y Trichogramma dropping by drones]
{{Taxonbar|from=Q2662992}}
[[Category:赤眼蜂屬|]]
<!-- 没有链接 -->[[Category:Insects_acting_as_insect_pest_control_agents|Category:Insects acting as insect pest control agents]]
<!-- 没有链接 -->[[Category:Biological_pest_control_wasps|Category:Biological pest control wasps]]
<!-- 没有链接 -->[[Category:Chalcidoidea_genera|Category:Chalcidoidea genera]]