{{Infobox Politician
| name = 叙马库斯
| image = Symmacho portrait terrestre, British Museum.jpg
| caption = 有关叙马库斯的文物
| birth_date = 345年
| birth_place =
| residence =
| death_date = 402年
| death_place = 
| office = 
| term = 
| term_end = 
| predecessor = 
| successor = 
| office2 = 
| term2 = 
| term_end2 = 
| office3 = 
| term3 = 
| term_end3 = 
| predecessor2 =
| successor2 = 
| constituency =
| party =
| religion = 
| occupation =[[政治家|政治家]]、[[演说家|演说家]]以及[[文学家|文学家]]
| majority =
| spouse = 
| children = 
| website =
| footnotes =
| nickname      =
| allegiance    = 
| branch        =
| serviceyears  =
| rank          = 
| commands      =
| battles       = 
}}
'''叙马库斯'''（{{lang-la|Quintus Aurelius Symmachus}}），（{{bd|345年||402年|}}）。<ref>Adkins,Lesley Adkins,Roy A.（1998）.''Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195123326.</ref>[[古罗马|古罗马]][[政治家|政治家]]、[[演说家|演说家]]以及[[文学家|文学家]]。出生于[[贵族|贵族]]家庭，后参加[[教会|教会]]事务，并开始进行[[文学|文学]]创作，以此获得了巨额财富。不久他因为卷入[[罗马帝国|罗马帝国]][[政治|政治]]纷争而死于非命，他的作品传世至今，反映了公元4[[世纪|世纪]]中期至公元5世纪初期混乱的[[欧洲|欧洲]]状况。

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

== 扩展阅读 ==
* ''Q. Aurelii Symmachi quae supersunt'', ed. by [[Otto_Seeck|Otto Seeck]] (Berlin, 1883; reprinted Munich, 2001), ISBN 3-921575-19-2. All surviving writings of Symmachus: letters, speeches and official reports, in the original Latin. This volume is Volume 6 of the series [[Monumenta_Germaniae_Historica|Monumenta Germaniae Historica]].  The letters are also published in a supplementary volume XIII in the [[Patrologia_Latina|Patrologia Latina]]. More recently, ''Symmaque: Lettres'', ed. by [[Jean-Pierre_Callu|Jean-Pierre Callu]] in four volumes (Paris, 1972–2002) published by [[Budé|Les Belles Lettres]] contains the letters of Symmachus in Latin with facing-page French translation. This has the fullest text and translation.
* Richard Klein: ''Symmachus. Eine tragische Gestalt des ausgehenden Heidentums''. Darmstadt (Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft [Impulse der Forschung, Band 2]) 1971, ISBN 3-534-04928-4.
* Richard Klein: ''Der Streit um den Victoriaaltar''. Darmstadt (WBG [Texte zur Forschung Band 7]) 1972, ISBN 3-534-05169-6.
* J.F. Matthews, "The Letters of Symmachus" in ''Latin Literature of the Fourth Century'' (edited by J.W. Binns), pp. 58–99. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1974, discusses them.
* J.F. Matthews, ''Western Aristocracies and Imperial Court, AD 364-425''. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1990. ISBN 0-19-814499-7
* Cristiana Sogno, ''Q. Aurelius Symmachus: A Political Biography''. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 2006. ISBN 978-0-472-11529-7

==外部链接==
{{Commons category|叙马库斯}}
*[http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/source/ambrose-sym.html Symmachus's letter on behalf the Senate, petitioning the three emperors]{{Wayback|url=http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/source/ambrose-sym.html |date=20130102051511 }}, at Medieval Sourcebook
*[http://www.acs.ucalgary.ca/~vandersp/Courses/texts/sym-amb/ambrepf.html Ambrose, Epistle xvii and xviii]{{Wayback|url=http://www.acs.ucalgary.ca/~vandersp/Courses/texts/sym-amb/ambrepf.html |date=20090814190634 }}
*[http://www.fh-augsburg.de/~harsch/Chronologia/Lspost04/Symmachus/sym_re03.html Relatio III of Symmachus]{{Wayback|url=http://www.fh-augsburg.de/~harsch/Chronologia/Lspost04/Symmachus/sym_re03.html |date=20080325060953 }}, in Latin
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20070222084051/http://www.1911encyclopedia.org/Symmachus_(Family) ''Encyclopaedia Britannica'' 1911:] "Symmachus (Family)"

{{Authority control}}

[[Category:4世紀羅馬人|Category:4世紀羅馬人]]
[[Category:罗马帝国执政官|Category:罗马帝国执政官]]
[[Category:罗马城长官|Category:罗马城长官]]