{{Infobox Anthem
|title         = High We Exalt Thee, Realm of the Free
|chinese_title = 我们崇敬你，自由的江山
|image         = Sierra Leonean Anthem Music Sheet.InstrumentalSimple.svg
|image_size    =
|caption       =
|country       = {{SLE}}
|prefix        = 国歌
|author        = [[Clifford_Nelson_Fyle|Clifford Nelson Fyle]]
|lyrics_date   =
|composer      = Melody [[John_Akar|John Akar]]
Harmony & Original Arrangement Logie E. K. Wright
|music_date    =
|adopted       = 1961
|until         =
|sound         =
|sound_title   =
}}
《'''我们崇敬你，自由的江山'''》（{{lang|en|High We Exalt Thee, Realm of the Free}}）為[[塞拉利昂共和国|塞拉利昂共和国]]國歌。 作詞者為Clifford Nelson Fyle，作曲者為[[约翰·阿卡|约翰·阿卡]]（John Akar）。

==歌詞==

High we exalt thee, realm of the free;<br>
Great is the love we have for thee;<br>
Firmly united ever we stand,<br>
Singing thy praise, O native land.<br>
We raise up our hearts and our voices on high,<br>
The hills and the valleys re-echo our cry;<br>
Blessing and peace be ever thine own,<br>
Land that we love, our Sierra Leone.<br>
<br>
One with a faith that wisdom inspires,<br>
One with a zeal that never tires;<br>
Ever we seek to honor thy name,<br>
Ours is the labor, thine the fame.<br>
We pray that no harm on thy children may fall,<br>
That blessing and peace may descend on us all;<br>
So may we serve thee ever alone,<br>
Land that we love, our Sierra Leone.<br>
<br>
Knowledge and truth our forefathers spread,<br>
Mighty the nations whom they led;<br>
Mighty they made thee, so too may we<br>
Show forth the good that is ever in thee.<br>
We pledge our devotion, our strength and our might,<br>
Thy cause to defend and to stand for thy right;<br>
All that we have be ever thine own,<br>
Land that we love, our Sierra Leone.

==外部链接==
* [http://files.ifnimidi.com/themes/anthems/Sierra_Leone.mid] {{Wayback|url=http://files.ifnimidi.com/themes/anthems/Sierra_Leone.mid |date=20210106100540 }}
{{非洲各國家和地区國歌}}
[[Category:非洲国家國歌|Category:非洲国家國歌]]
[[Category:塞拉利昂歌曲|Category:塞拉利昂歌曲]]