{{Infobox Anthem
|title = <big>النشيد الوطني السوداني</big>
|chinese_title = 我们是真主和祖国的战士    
|image = Emblem of Sudan.svg
|image_size = 150px
|caption = [[苏丹国徽|苏丹国徽]]
|prefix = 国歌
|country = {{SUD}}
|author = 艾哈迈德·穆罕默德·萨利赫<br /><small>（Ahmad Muhammad Salih）</small>
|lyrics_date =
|composer = 艾哈迈德·摩根<br /><small>（Ahmad Murjan）</small>
|music_date = 1956
|adopted = 1956年至今
|until = 
|sound =Sudanese national anthem, performed by the U.S. Navy Band (instrumental).oga
|sound_title = 我们是真主和祖国的战士
}}

《'''我们是真主和祖国的战士'''》（{{lang-ar|النشيد الوطني السوداني}}）是[[苏丹共和国|苏丹共和国]]国歌。苏丹共和国的国歌原是苏丹国防军在独立之前创作的歌曲。苏丹获得独立后，1956年，被选为苏丹国歌。这首歌的词作者是[[艾哈迈德·穆罕默德·萨利赫|艾哈迈德·穆罕默德·萨利赫]]，[[艾哈迈德·摩根|艾哈迈德·摩根]]上校作曲。<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.nationalanthems.info/sd.htm |title=存档副本 |access-date=2014-06-26 |archive-date=2021-03-03 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210303033817/http://www.nationalanthems.info/sd.htm |dead-url=no }}</ref>

== 歌词 ==
=== 阿拉伯语原文 ===
نحن جند الله جند الوطن<br>
إن دعا داعي الفداء لن نخــن<br>
نتحدى الموت عند المحن<br>
نشتري المجد بأغلى ثمن<br>
هذه الأرض لنا فليعش<br>
سوداننا علماً بين الأمم<br>
يابني السودان هذا رمزكم<br>
يحمل العبء ويحمى أرضكم

=== 转写 ===
Naḥnu jundu Llāh jundu l-waṭan.<br>
In daʿā dāʿī l-fidā' lam nakhun.<br>
Nataḥaddā l-mawt ʿinda l-miḥan.<br>
Nashtarī l-majd bi-'aghlā thaman.<br>
Hadhihī l-'arḍu lanā<br>
Fa-la-yaʿīsh Sūdānunā,<br>
ʿalaman baina l-'umam.<br>
Yā banī s-Sudān, hādhā ramzukum;<br>
Yaḥmilu l-'uʿba′, wa yaḥmī arḍakum.<br>

=== 英文 ===
We are God's soldiers, soldiers of homeland<br>
If called for redemption, we did not betray<br>
We challenge death upon ordeals<br>
We buy glory at the most expensive price<br>
This land is ours<br>
May our Sudan live, an edifice among the nations<br>
O Sons of the Sudan this is your symbol,<br>
carries the burden and protecting your land<br>

=== 中文翻译 ===
<!-- 根据参考资料中的英文版翻译，翻译质量可能不好，欢迎修正！-->
我们是真主和祖国的战士<br>
抱着必死的决心，我们不会失败<br>
无论是战死沙场，还是艰难痛苦<br>
我们以生命换来荣耀<br>
愿我的祖国苏丹永存<br>
为国民指明道路<br>
苏丹的儿子们，祖国在召唤<br>
肩负保卫祖国的重任<br>

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

{{-}}
{{非洲各國家和地区國歌}}

[[Category:非洲国家国歌|Category:非洲国家国歌]]
[[Category:苏丹国家象征|Category:苏丹国家象征]]

[[Category:苏丹歌曲|Category:苏丹歌曲]]