'''SQ3R'''方法是一種提升研習能力的方法，為[[美國|美國]][[俄亥俄州州立大學|俄亥俄州州立大學]][[心理學|心理學]]教授羅賓遜（{{lang|en|[[Francis_Pleasant_Robinson|F. P. Robinson]]}}）所設計的一套有效讀書方法，於1946年在他的著作''Effective Study''有所提及，主要用於精讀課文<ref>Robinson, Francis Pleasant. (1970年) Effective study (4th ed.). New York: Harper & Row.</ref><ref>{{cite web | url=http://www.ic.arizona.edu/ic/wrightr/other/sq3r.html | title=The SQ3R method | accessdate=2006-05-19 | archive-date=2006-04-12 | archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20060412163904/http://www.ic.arizona.edu/ic/wrightr/other/sq3r.html | dead-url=no }}</ref> <ref>{{cite web | url=http://www.ucc.vt.edu/lynch/TextbookReading.htm | title=Increasing textbook reading comprehension by using SQ3R | accessdate=2006-05-19 | deadurl=yes | archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20081217114122/http://www.ucc.vt.edu/lynch/TextbookReading.htm | archivedate=2008-12-17 }}</ref>
。“SQ3R”來自以下五個英語詞語的字首，即：綜覽（Survey）、發問（Question）、閱讀（Read）、背誦（Recite）、複習（Review）。

== 綜覽 ==
綜覽（{{lang|en|Survey}}，為時約1分鐘）：在詳讀文章之前，先概覽文章一番：留意文章內的標題及結構，以控制閱讀的目的、方向和注意力。細閱文章的引言、總結及參考，但不要閱讀文章的內容，試試能否從所得的資料略知文章的主題。目標為掌握文章主題的3個至6個要點。

== 發問 ==
發問（{{lang|en|Question}}，為時不超過半分鐘）：主要利用每個章節的標題和[[六何法|六何法]]來對要研習的題目自行擬定問題。

== 閱讀 ==
閱讀（{{lang|en|Read}}，不設時限，但以個人步伐）：指專心注意於找出發問問題的答案。閱讀者需要逐一章節細閱，而不是一次過細閱整個篇章。閱讀時應用主動閱讀技巧，嘗試在內文中找尋先前擬定問題的答案。

== 背誦 ==
「背誦」（{{lang|en|Recite}}）：能夠在閱讀時利用各種閱讀技巧以幫助[[記憶|記憶]]，例如：做重點畫線、口頭複誦或筆記摘要。

== 複習 ==
複習（{{lang|en|Review}}）：回憶所記憶的重點。

== 其他 ==
“SQ3R”方法的目的，在於讓學生在課堂之後，可以有一個比較有系統的溫習方法，從而提高學習能力。對於需要實習或應用的主題，有時亦可加入第６項：

* 實踐─{{lang|en|Practise}}，或
* 關聯─{{lang|en|Relate}}（放在複習之前）

<!--
#'''Recite/write''' (about a minute): Say to yourself out loud or write down a key phrase that sums up the major point of the section and answers the question. It is important to use your own words, not just copy a phrase from the book. Research shows that we remember our own (active) connections better than ones given to us (passive), indeed that our own hierarchies are generally better than the best prefab hierarchies. 
#'''Review''' (less than 5 minutes): After repeating steps 2–4 for each section you have a list of key phrases that provides a sort of outline for the chapter. Test yourself by covering up the key phrases and seeing if you can recall them. Do this right after you finish reading the chapter. If you can't recall one of your major points, that's a section you need to reread. -->

== 參考 ==
{{Reflist|2}}

== 外部連結 ==
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20040104205225/http://blogbus.com/blogbus/blog/diary.php?diaryid=54498 SQ3R方法的Blog]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20040420234811/http://www.nani.com.tw/92pstlearn/pstlearn2.htm 南一書局南ｅ網：SQ3R學習法]
{{portal bar|教育|心理學|社會|神經科學}}

[[Category:學習方法|Category:學習方法]]