{{Infobox person
| name        = 弗朗西斯科·埃爾南德斯·德科爾多巴
| image       = Francisco Hernández de Córdoba.jpg
| alt         = 300px
| caption     = 弗朗西斯科·埃爾南德斯·德科爾多巴像
| birth_date  = 
| birth_place = 
| death_date  = 1517年
| death_place = 
| ethnicity   = 
| other_names = 
| known_for   = 
| occupation  = [[航海家|航海家]]和[[探险家|探险家]]
}}
'''弗朗西斯科·埃爾南德斯·德科爾多巴（尤卡坦征服者）'''（{{lang-en|Francisco Hernández de Córdoba (Yucatán conquistador)}}），（{{bd|？||1517年|}}），[[文艺复兴时期|文艺复兴时期]][[欧洲|欧洲]][[航海家|航海家]]。<ref>Cormack 1997:''England''</ref>他曾参加征服[[古巴|古巴]]的探险活动，后继续深入[[尤卡坦|尤卡坦]]地区，成为首位与[[玛雅人|玛雅人]]建立联系的[[欧洲人|欧洲人]]。<ref>Sandra Sider.（2007）. ''Handbook to Life in Renaissance Europe''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195330847.</ref>他猎捕[[美洲|美洲]]当地的居民为[[奴隶|奴隶]]。<ref>Buisseret 1992:''political applications''</ref>

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

==扩展阅读==
* [[Toribio_de_Benavente|Benavente, Fray Toribio de (''"Motolinía"'')]], ''Colección Crónicas de América''. Dastin, Madrid, 2000, ISBN 84-492-0217-5. At the end of chapter VIII of the third chapter is the reference to the etymologies of ''Catoche'' and ''Yucatán''. It is possible that Motolinía was among the first to promulgate the legend about "I don't understand you".
*[[Hernán_Cortés|Cortés, Hernán]], ''Cartas de relación de la conquista de México''. Colección Austral, Espasa-Calpe, 5ª ed., Madrid, 1970. The letter signed by the ''justicia y regimiento'' of Veracruz should be added to the letters of Cortés substituting for the lost first letter. It begins (after an introduction in accord with protocol) by mentioning the expedition described in this article.
*[[Bernal_Díaz_del_Castillo|Díaz del Castillo, Bernal]]. ''Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España''.  Colección Austral, Espasa-Calpe, 3ª ed., Madrid 1975. Chapters I-VII. This is the primary reference, given the length at which it discusses the expedition and the fact of its author having participated in the preparation of the expedition.
*Kirkpatrick, Frederick Alex. ''Los conquistadores españoles'', 3ª edición, February 2004, ISBN 84-321-3242-X.  Only a few lines about the discovery of Yucatán, at the beginning of Chapter V, in this classic (the original English-language edition was in 1934) about the conquistadors.
*Landa, Fray Diego de, ''Relación de las cosas de Yucatán''. Colección Crónicas de América, Dastin, Madrid, 2002, ISBN 84-492-0227-2. In the first chapters (the original was not separated into chapters, that was done by modern editors) it deals with the etymology of ''Yucatán'' and Hernández's expedition, which the author believes started as an expedition to gather slaves for the mines.
** The [http://www.wayeb.org/download/resources/landa.pdf ''Relación de las cosas de Yucatán''] is also available online (in Spanish) as a [[portable_document_format|PDF]] file on the web site of the [http://www.wayeb.org European Association of Mayanists].
*Madariaga, Salvador de, ''Hernán Cortés''. Grandes biografías. Planeta de Agostini, Madrid, 1995, ISBN 84-395-3817-0 In Chapter VII, Madariaga makes a poetic elegy to the young conquistadors, to whose desire for adventure and disdain for leisure ("to occupy ourselves") he attributes the occasion of the voyage. He accuses only Velázquez of slaving, and believes that the governor had to surrender to the arguments of the rest of the expeditionaries.
*Miralles, Juan, ''Hernán Cortés, inventor de México''. Tiempo de memoria, Tusquets, 4ª ed., Barcelona, 2002. ISBN 84-8310-758-9. In Chapter 1, "el trampolín antillano" ("The Antillean Trampoline"), he briefly describes Hernández's voyage. He writes about the contradiction between a slaving expedition and the presence of Alaminos on of the ''veedor'', and the possibility that Alaminos had unrevealed information about Yucatán, that he had received from Columbus.
*[[William_H._Prescott|Prescott, William H.]], ''Historia de la Conquista de México''. Papeles del tiempo, Antonio Machado Libros, Madrid, 2004 ISBN 84-7774-237-5. In the first chapter of book II, Prescott briefly narrates the expedition. He gives it as certain that slaving was the object of the expedition, and also discusses the etymology of ''Yucatán''.
* {{cite book | first=William H. | last=Prescott | authorlink=William H. Prescott | coauthors= | year=1843 | month= | title= ''The Conquest of Mexico'' | chapter=Book II, Chapter I | editor= | others= | edition= | pages= | publisher= | location= | id= | url=http://xroads.virginia.edu/~HYPER/PRESCOTT/bk02_ch01.html }}; online English edition
* {{cite book | first=Bernal | last=Díaz del Castillo | authorlink=Bernal Díaz del Castillo | coauthors= | year=1963 (orig. ca.1568) | month= | title=''The Conquest of New Spain''| chapter= | editor= | others=J. M. Cohen, ''trans.'' and ''abridged'' | edition=7th reprint | pages= | publisher=Penguin Classics | location=London | id= }}

==外部链接==
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20041206065026/http://redescolar.ilce.edu.mx/redescolar/efemerides/febrero/conme8.htm Discovery of Yucatán], on the Mexican web site [http://redescolar.ilce.edu.mx redescolar]. {{es icon}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20060427121141/http://www.mexicodesconocido.com.mx/espanol/historia/colonia/detalle.cfm?idpag=4166&idsec=2&idsub=13 Discovery of Yucatán], on [http://www.mexicodesconocido.com.mx México desconocido]. {{es icon}}

{{Authority control}}

[[Category:航海家|Category:航海家]]
[[Category:探险家|Category:探险家]]