'''弗洛里茨多夫'''（{{lang-de|Floridsdorf}}）是奧地利首都[[維也納|維也納]]的23個行政區之一，位於維也納東北部。弗洛里茨多夫面積44.46平方公里，2014年有人口148947人。
==參考資料==
* "Wien - 21. Bezirk/Floridsdorf", Wien.gv.at, 2008, webpage (15 subpages): [https://web.archive.org/web/20081225025326/http://www.wien.gv.at/floridsdorf/ Wien.gv.at-floridsdorf].
* [[Felix_Czeike|Felix Czeike]]: ''Wiener Bezirkskulturführer: XXI. Floridsdorf'' ("Vienna District Cultural Leader: XXI. Floridsdorf"). Jugend and Volk, Vienna 1979, ISBN 3-7141-6221-6.
* [[Raimund_Hinkel|Raimund Hinkel]], [[Kurt_Landsmann|Kurt Landsmann]], [[Robert_Vrtala|Robert Vrtala]]: ''Floridsdorf von A-Z. Der 21. Bezirk in 1.000 Stichworten'' ("Floridsdorf from A-Z: the 21st District in 1,000 words"). Brandstätter, Vienna 1997, ISBN 3-85447-724-4.
* Kurt Landsmann: ''Floridsdorf 1945: das Kriegsende. Ein Beitrag zur Zeitgeschichte'' ("Floridsdorf 1945: The War's End: A View of Time History"). [[Brandstätter_Verlag|Brandstätter Verlag]], Vienna 1995, ISBN 3-85447-622-1.
* [[Carola_Leitner|Carola Leitner]] (Hg.): ''Floridsdorf: Wiens 21. Bezirk in alten Fotografien'' ("Floridsdorf: Vienna's 21st District in Old Photographs"). [[Ueberreuter|Ueberreuter]], Vienna 2006, ISBN 3-8000-7206-8.
* [[Peter_Schubert|Peter Schubert]]: ''Jugendstil & Co: Hausschmuck in Floridsdorf 1880–1930'' ("Houses in Floridsdorf 1880–1930"). Mayer, Klosterneuburg 2001, ISBN 3-901025-93-6.
==外部連結==
* [http://www.floridsdorf.net Districtcommunity Floridsdorf (German)] {{Wayback|url=http://www.floridsdorf.net/ |date=20190430141715 }}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20081225025326/http://www.wien.gv.at/floridsdorf/ Official Website (German)]
* [http://www.bezirksmuseum.at/floridsdorf/ District Museum of Floridsdorf (German)]
* [http://www.scn.at/ Official Website of SCN (Shopping Center Nord) (German)] {{Wayback|url=http://www.scn.at/ |date=20151012093607 }}
{{Coord|48|17|00|N|16|24|44|E|region:AT-9_type:adm2nd|display=title}}
[[Category:維也納行政區劃|Category:維也納行政區劃]]