{{NoteTA
|G1=Butterfly
}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Telenassa
| authority = Higgins, 1981
| image = Telenassa berenice berenice (Nymphalidae- Argynninae- Melitaeini) (29937532284).jpg
| image_caption = [[貝遠蛺蝶|貝遠蛺蝶]]<br />''T. berenice''
| type_species = [[黃帶遠蛺蝶|黃帶遠蛺蝶]]<br />''Argynnis teletusa''
| type_species_authority = Godart, [1824]
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共8種，詳見正文。
| synonyms =
}}

'''遠蛺蝶屬'''（學名：''Telenassa''）是[[蛺蝶亞科|蛺蝶亞科]][[網蛺蝶族|網蛺蝶族]]中的一個[[屬|屬]]。物種分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2008. Telenassa Higgins 1981. Version 21 January 2008 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Telenassa/70580/2008.01.21 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Telenassa/70580/2008.01.21 |date=20191130235230 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* [[阿遠蛺蝶|阿遠蛺蝶]] ''Telenassa abas''
* [[迪遠蛺蝶|迪遠蛺蝶]] ''Telenassa delphia''
** 卡特遠蛺蝶 ''T. d. gaujoni''
** 埃遠蛺蝶 ''T. d. elaphina''
** 高遠蛺蝶 ''T. d. gaujoni''
** 娜遠蛺蝶 ''T. d. nana''
** 奴遠蛺蝶 ''T. d. nussia''
* [[貝遠蛺蝶|貝遠蛺蝶]] ''Telenassa berenice''
** ''T. b. drusinilla'' = 記遠蛺蝶 ''T. signata''
* [[黃帶遠蛺蝶|黃帶遠蛺蝶]] ''Telenassa teletusa''
** 布遠蛺蝶 ''T. t. burchelli''
* [[珍遠蛺蝶|珍遠蛺蝶]] ''Telenassa jana''
* [[鳳丹蛺蝶|鳳丹蛺蝶]] ''Telenassa fontus'' {{ref label|Aspirated|註|}}
** ''T. f. fontus'' = 邊麥蛺蝶 ''Mazia rima''
* [[背遠蛺蝶|背遠蛺蝶]] ''Telenassa notus''
* [[森遠蛺蝶|森遠蛺蝶]] ''Telenassa sepultus''
<br />
'''註'''{{note|Aspirated}}：有學者認為[[鳳丹蛺蝶|鳳丹蛺蝶]]與其他遠蛺蝶進化自不同[[演化支|演化支]]，而是[[黃點漆蛺蝶|黃點漆蛺蝶]]（''Phystis simois''）的[[姐妹群|姐妹群]]，應從此分類中剔出<ref>Wahlberg, Niklas and Andrew V. Z. Brower. 2008. Phyciodina Higgins 1981. Version 21 January 2008 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Phyciodina/70303/2008.01.21 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Phyciodina/70303/2008.01.21 |date=20191201002408 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}</ref>。

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考文獻 ==
* {{Commonscat-inline|  Telenassa}}
* Higgins LG. 1981. A revision of Phyciodes Hubner and related genera, with a review of the classification of the Melitaeinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Bulletin of the British Museum (Natural History) 43: 77-243.
* Lamas G ed. 2004. Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* Hewitson, William C. (William Chapman) et al. 1856. [https://archive.org/details/illustrationsofn02hewi Illustrations of new species of exotic butterflies : selected chiefly from the collections of W. Wilson Saunders and William C. Hewitson]
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

{{蛺蝶亞科}}

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_1981年描述的分类群|Y]]
[[Category:網蛺蝶族|Y]]
[[Category:遠蛺蝶屬|*]]