{{Translating|[[:en:Social_death|:en:Social death]]|time=2020-12-04}}
'''社会性死亡'''（{{lang-en|Social death}}）指的是人被社会忽視、孤立或隔離。像{{lang|en|Orlando Patterson}}和[[齐格蒙·鲍曼|齐格蒙·鲍曼]]等社會學家有用過此詞語，研究奴隸及[[納粹大屠殺|納粹大屠殺]]的歷史學家也使用此一詞語來說明政府隔離和社會隔離在此過程中扮演的角色<ref>Claudia Card, Genocide and Social Death, Hypatia, Vol. 18, No. 1 (Winter 2003)</ref><ref>{{cite journal | title=History and Social Death | author=BRODBER, ERNA | journal=Caribbean Quarterly |date=December 2012 | volume=58 | issue=4 | pages=111–115}}</ref>。以下是一些社会性死亡的例子：

*種族和性別排斥、迫害、奴役以及[[種族隔離|種族隔離]]<ref>Family and Psycho-Social Dimensions of Death and Dying in African Americans, Key Topics on End-of-Life Care for African Americans, Duke Institute on Care at the End of Life and the Initiative to Improve Palliative Care for African Americans</ref><ref>John Edwin Mason, Social Death and Resurrection: Slavery and Emancipation in South Africa, {{ISBN|0-8139-2178-3}}</ref>{{sfn|Patterson|2000}}。
*政府將一些人或是群體排除在社會之外，例如<!--近代歐洲的新教少數群體，-->[[古雅典|古雅典]]的[[陶片放逐制|陶片放逐制]]，罪犯、娼妓、[[法外之徒|法外之徒]]<ref>Jaap W. Ouwerkerk, et al., Avoiding the Social Death Penalty: Threat of Ostracism and Cooperation in Social Dilemmas, The 7th Annual Sydney Symposium of Social Psychology: The Social Outcast: Ostracism, Social Exclusion, Rejection, & Bullying, Mar. 16-18, 2004 (Alternate link)</ref><ref>Matelita Ragogo, Social Death Part of AIDS Tragedy, Says HIV-Positive Advocate, Agence France Presse, Sept. 9, 2002</ref>。
*對患有精神疾病的人進行的機構化及隔離。

可以說「[[退化_(病症)|退化]]」（{{lang-en|Degeneration}}）病症理論以及類似的理論是最極端的社会性死亡的例子。這類退化的概念在左翼及右翼的政治群體中都有出現。不論[[左翼|左翼]]還是[[右翼|右翼]]的政治群體，會用「[[頹廢|頹廢]]」（decadence）一詞來形容和他們在社會、道德、宗教、美學或政治立場上不同的人，對左翼而言，頹廢一詞是用來形容傾向抑制任何型式進步的右翼人士，對右翼而言，頹廢一詞是用來形容破壞社會基本秩序的左翼人士。

==相關條目==
* [[绝罚|绝罚]]
* [[流亡|流亡]]
* [[流放|流放]]
* [[记录抹煞|记录抹煞]]
* [[奴隶制度|奴隶制度]]

==註解==
{{Reflist}}

==參考資料==
* Claudia Card, [http://muse.jhu.edu/cgi-bin/access.cgi?uri=/journals/hypatia/v018/18.1card02.html ''Genocide and Social Death''], Hypatia, Vol. 18, No. 1 (Winter 2003)
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20060908012455/http://www.iceol.duke.edu/lastmiles/papers/10.html ''Family and Psycho-Social Dimensions of Death and Dying in African Americans''], Key Topics on End-of-Life Care for African Americans, Duke Institute on Care at the End of Life and the Initiative to Improve Palliative Care for African Americans
* Brian Garavaglia, [http://www.socialworker.com/home/component/magazine/Avoiding-the-Tendency-to-Medicalize-the-Grieving-Process-Reconciliation-Rather-Than-Resolution/  ''Avoiding the Tendency to Medicalize the Grieving Process: Reconciliation Rather Than Resolution''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.socialworker.com/home/component/magazine/Avoiding-the-Tendency-to-Medicalize-the-Grieving-Process-Reconciliation-Rather-Than-Resolution/ |date=20120205201549 }}, The New Social Worker Online, Summer 2006
* John Edwin Mason, [http://www.upress.virginia.edu/books/mason.html ''Social Death and Resurrection: Slavery and Emancipation in South Africa''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.upress.virginia.edu/books/mason.html |date=20160918070229 }}, {{ISBN|0-8139-2178-3}}
* Jaap W. Ouwerkerk, et al., [http://www2.psych.purdue.edu/~kip/Announce/SSSP2004.htm ''Avoiding the Social Death Penalty: Threat of Ostracism and Cooperation in Social Dilemmas''] {{Wayback|url=http://www2.psych.purdue.edu/~kip/Announce/SSSP2004.htm |date=20090428085854 }}, The 7th Annual Sydney Symposium of Social Psychology: The Social Outcast: Ostracism, Social Exclusion, Rejection, & Bullying, Mar. 16-18, 2004 ([https://web.archive.org/web/20060901144008/http://www.psychology.msu.edu/social/people/faculty/articles/OuwerkerkEtAl.prepublicationDraft.doc Alternate link])
* {{Cite book| author=Orlando Patterson| author-link=Orlando Patterson| url=https://archive.org/details/slaverysocialdea0000patt| title=Slavery and Social Death: A Comparative Study| date=1985| ISBN=0-674-81082-1| url-access=registration}}
* Matelita Ragogo, [http://www.thebody.com/content/art17602.html ''Social Death Part of AIDS Tragedy, Says HIV-Positive Advocate''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.thebody.com/content/art17602.html |date=20190403124532 }}, Agence France Presse, Sept. 9, 2002
* Deborah C. Reidy, [http://akmhcweb.org/Articles/StigmaisSocialDeath.htm ''Stigma is Social Death: Mental Health Consumers/Survivors Talk About Stigma In Their Lives''] {{Wayback|url=http://akmhcweb.org/Articles/StigmaisSocialDeath.htm |date=20070208055020 }}, Alaska Mental Health Consumer Web
* Stuart Waldman, [http://www.haworthpress.com/store/ArticleAbstract.asp?sid=B3WWBH27UHMS9LQG9TV5JXA0DBQS8E31&ID=61616 ''Surviving a Fate Worse than Death: The Plight of the Homebound Elderly''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.haworthpress.com/store/ArticleAbstract.asp?sid=B3WWBH27UHMS9LQG9TV5JXA0DBQS8E31&ID=61616 |date=20070927003110 }}, Loss, Grief & Care: A Journal of Professional Practice Vol. 6, No. 4 (May 14, 1993), ISSN 8756-4610
* Trish Williams, [http://www.losingtom.org/death/death.html ''Death, Dying and Grieving''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.losingtom.org/death/death.html |date=20200115231030 }}, Losing Tom: A Documentary Film

[[Category:社会排斥|Category:社会排斥]]
[[Category:社會學術語|Category:社會學術語]]