{{legal}}
{{替代性爭端解決}}

'''替代性爭端解決方式'''（Alternative dispute resolution，簡稱ADR，不過在澳洲稱為external dispute resolution(外部爭議解決機制)<ref>[http://www.asic.gov.au/asic/ASIC.NSF/byHeadline/Complaints%20resolution%20schemes Australian Securities and Investments Commission - Complaints resolution schemes] {{Wayback|url=http://www.asic.gov.au/asic/ASIC.NSF/byHeadline/Complaints%20resolution%20schemes |date=20090106073042 }}. Asic.gov.au. Retrieved on 2013-07-14.</ref>）是稱讓有[[爭議|爭議]]的雙方在不用進行[[訴訟|訴訟]]的情形下，達到共識的{{le|爭議解決|dispute resolution}}程序及技巧。替代性爭端解決方式是一集合名詞，其中包括許多使雙方可以結束爭議的方式，可以有第三者的協助，也可以只由爭議雙方進行。

==參考資料==
{{reflist}}

==相關條目==
{{div col|2}}
*{{le|衝突解決研究|Conflict resolution research}}
*{{le|創意建設和平|Creative peacebuilding}}
*{{le|家庭治療|Family therapy}}
*{{le|國家仲裁者學會|National Academy of Arbitrators}}
*[[申訴專員|申訴專員]]
*{{le|青少年法庭|Teen court}}
*{{le|企業再生替代性爭端解決|Turnaround ADR}}
*{{le|線上爭議解決機制|Online dispute resolution}}
{{div col end}}

==延伸閱讀==
{{refbegin|2}}
*  Lynch, J. "ADR and Beyond: A Systems Approach to Conflict Management", Negotiation Journal, Volume 17, Number 3, July 2001, Volume, p. 213.
*  [[Gary_Born|Gary Born]]. "International Commercial Arbitration" (2009 Kluwer).
*  William Ury, Roger Fisher, Bruce Patton. "Getting to Yes" (1981 Penguin Group).
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
* [http://www.emtpj.eu/ European Mediation Training for Practitioners of Justice - EMTPJ] {{Wayback|url=http://www.emtpj.eu/ |date=20210123201002 }}
* [http://www.cnr.berkeley.edu/ucce50/ag-labor/7conflict/ Party-Directed Mediation: Facilitating Dialogue Between Individuals''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.cnr.berkeley.edu/ucce50/ag-labor/7conflict/ |date=20140827134532 }} by [[Gregorio_Billikopf|Gregorio Billikopf]], free complete book PDF download, at the University of California (3rd Edition, posted 24 March 2014)
* [https://archive.org/details/PartyDirMediation_201404 Party-Directed Mediation: Facilitating Dialogue Between Individuals''] by [[Gregorio_Billikopf|Gregorio Billikopf]], free complete book download, from Internet Archive (3rd Edition, multiple file formats including PDF, EPUB, and others)
* [http://www.adr-register.com/ ADR International Register] {{Wayback|url=http://www.adr-register.com/ |date=20160118132444 }} ISO based registration and certification for ADR practitioners such as arbitrators, conflictcoaches, mediators and negotiators.

{{法律小作品}}

[[Category:爭議解決|Category:爭議解決]]