{{Unreferenced|time=2020-10-28T09:07:08+00:00}}
{{Infobox language family
|name        = 努利斯坦語言
|altname     = Kafiri
|region      = [[努里斯坦省|努里斯坦省]]，[[阿富汗|阿富汗]]<br>[[吉德拉尔县|吉德拉尔县]]，[[巴基斯坦|巴基斯坦]]
|familycolor = Indo-European
|fam2        = [[印度-伊朗语|印度-伊朗语]]
|protoname   = 原始努利斯坦語
|child1      = 北努利斯坦語言
|child2      = 南努利斯坦語言
|map         = File:Nuristan in Afghanistan.svg
|mapcaption  = [[Nuristan_Province|Nuristan Province]] in Afghanistan, where most speakers live
|glotto      = nuri1243
|glottorefname = Nuristani
}}

'''努利斯坦语支'''（努利斯坦語言；Nuristani languages；Kafiri languages）是[[印度-伊朗语族|印度-伊朗语族]]三大语支之一，使用人口约13万人，主要位于[[阿富汗|阿富汗]]东部及[[巴基斯坦|巴基斯坦]][[开伯尔-普什图省|开伯尔-普什图省]][[吉德拉尔县|吉德拉尔县]]，该地区人口为[[努里斯坦人|努里斯坦人]]。此前，该语支常被划入[[印度-雅利安语支|印度-雅利安语支]]内，但最终被单独划为印度-伊朗语族的第三语支，

==註釋==
{{reflist}}

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
* Decker, Kendall D. (1992) ''Languages of Chitral.'' Sociolinguistic Survey of Northern Pakistan, 5. Islamabad: National Institute of Pakistan Studies, Quaid-i-Azam University and Summer Institute of Linguistics. {{ISBN|4-87187-520-2}}
* Grjunberg, A. L. (1971): ''K dialektologii dardskich jazykov (glangali i zemiaki). Indijskaja i iranskaja filologija: Voprosy dialektologii.'' Moscow.
* Morgenstierne, Georg (1926) Report on a Linguistic Mission to Afghanistan. [[Institute_for_Comparative_Research_in_Human_Culture|Instituttet for Sammenlignende Kulturforskning]], Serie C I-2. Oslo. {{ISBN|0-923891-09-9}}
* Jettmar, Karl (1985) Religions of the Hindu Kush {{ISBN|0-85668-163-6}}
* [[J._P._Mallory|J. P. Mallory]], ''In Search of the Indo-Europeans: Language, Archaeology and Myth'', Thames and Hudson, 1989.
* James P. Mallory & Douglas Q. Adams, "Indo-Iranian Languages", ''[[Encyclopedia_of_Indo-European_Culture|Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture]]'', Fitzroy Dearborn, 1997.
* Strand, Richard F. "[https://web.archive.org/web/20161106105936/http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/nurestani-languages NURESTÂNI LANGUAGES]" in Encyclopædia Iranica
{{refend}}

==參閲==
*[[帕夏伊語言|帕夏伊語言]](Pashayi languages)
*[[俾路支语|俾路支语]]

==外部連結==
* [http://www.site-shara.net/ Reiko and Jun's Japanese Kalash Page] {{Wayback|url=http://www.site-shara.net/ |date=20210509111803 }} (in English)
* [http://www.lexicool.com/dlink.asp?ID=0FW3HU5663&L1=34&L2=44 Hindi/Urdu-English-Kalasha-Khowar-Nuristani-Pashtu Comparative Word List] {{Wayback|url=http://www.lexicool.com/dlink.asp?ID=0FW3HU5663&L1=34&L2=44 |date=20190912023522 }}
* [http://nuristan.info/index.html Richard Strand's Nuristân Site] {{Wayback|url=http://nuristan.info/index.html |date=20220120025129 }} This site is the primary source on the linguistics and ethnography of Nuristân and neighboring regions, collected and analyzed over the last forty years by the leading scholar on Nuristân.
{{-}}
{{tsl|en|template:Nuristani languages|state=collapsed}}

{{Authority control}}
[[Category:印度-伊朗語族|Category:印度-伊朗語族]]