{{Infobox person
|name=布魯斯·賈科斯基<br>Bruce Jakosky
|birth_name=Bruce Martin Jakosky
|birth_date={{birth date and age|mf=yes|1955|12|9}}
|nationality={{USA}}
|occupation=地質學家、行星科學家
|employer=[[科羅拉多大學博爾德分校|科羅拉多大學博爾德分校]]
|alma_mater = [[加州理工學院|加州理工學院]]     
}}

'''布魯斯·馬丁·賈科斯基'''（'''Bruce Martin Jakosky'''，{{bd|1955年|12月9日|||catIdx=J}}）是一位美國行星科學家。曾經參與[[海盗号|海盗号]]、{{Link-en|太陽與地球中氣層探測衛星|Solar Mesosphere Explorer}}、[[克萊門汀號|克萊門汀號]]、[[火星觀察者號|火星觀察者號]]、[[火星全球探勘者號|火星全球探勘者號]]、[[2001火星奧德賽號|2001火星奧德賽號]]、[[火星科学实验室|火星科学实验室]]和[[MAVEN|MAVEN]]等太空任務，並且投入多個未來太空任務的規劃。

==經歷==
賈科斯基於1982年在[[加州理工學院|加州理工學院]]獲得博士學位。他是[[科羅拉多大學博爾德分校|科羅拉多大學博爾德分校]]內屬於{{Link-en|美國國家航空暨太空總署天文生物學研究所|NASA Astrobiology Institute}}團隊的領導者，並且在許多國家諮詢委員會內服務。賈科斯基也是[[科羅拉多大學博爾德分校|科羅拉多大學博爾德分校]]{{Link-en|大氣與太空物理實驗室|Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics}}的副主任。賈科斯基是地球和行星地質學與[[外星生命|外星生命]]的專家，他的研究也包含了外星生命涉及科學和社會的相關哲學議題。他的研究興趣是行星表面地質學，尤其是[[火星地質|火星地質]]，以及[[火星大氣層|火星大氣層]]演化和[[火星氣候|火星氣候]]、[[大氣化學|大氣化學]]、火星生命存在的可能性等等，以及[[天文生物學|天文生物學]]的哲學和社會議題<ref>{{cite web|title=Official Biography ''[[科羅拉多大學博爾德分校|University of Colorado at Boulder]]''|url=http://www.colorado.edu/GeolSci/faculty/jakosky.html|accessdate=September 18, 2008|deadurl=yes|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20081007151929/http://www.colorado.edu/GeolSci/faculty/jakosky.html|archivedate=2008年10月7日}}</ref>。

2008年9月一個環繞火星的[[MAVEN|MAVEN]]衛星計畫被NASA選定為即將執行的探測任務。該探測器於2013年11月發射，賈科斯基是該計畫的主持人。這項耗資4.85億美金的計畫是科羅拉多大學博爾德分校至今執行的最大規模研究計畫<ref>{{cite web|title=CU News Center ''[[科羅拉多大學博爾德分校|University of Colorado at Boulder]]''|url=http://www.colorado.edu/news/r/20ee5e636527d989c7e1164e6cb2c5fc.html|accessdate=September 18, 2008|deadurl=yes|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20080919050750/http://www.colorado.edu/news/r/20ee5e636527d989c7e1164e6cb2c5fc.html|archivedate=2008年9月19日}}</ref>。

==代表性著作==
{{Refbegin|2}}

===書籍===
*Jakosky, B.M. (1998). The search for life on other planets, Cambridge University Press.
*Jakosky, B.M. (2006). Science, Society, and the Search for Life in the Universe, Univ. Arizona Press.

===期刊論文===
*Henderson, B.G., B.M. Jakosky and C.E. Randall, A Monte Carlo Model of Polarized Thermal Emission from Particulate Planetary Surfaces, Icarus, 99, 51, 1992
*Jakosky, B.M., Out on a limb: Martian atmospheric dust opacity during the past hundred years, Icarus, 117, 352-357, 1995
*Mellon, M.T., and B.M. Jakosky, The distribution and behavior of martian ground ice during past and present epochs, [[Journal_of_Geophysical_Research|J. Geophys. Res.]], 100, E6, 11,781-11,799, 1995
*Henderson, B.G., P.G. Lucey, and B.M. Jakosky, New laboratory measurements of Mid-IR emission spectra of simulated planetary surfaces, J. Geophys. Res., 101, No. E, 14,969-14,975, 1996
*Hutchins, K.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Evolution of Martian atmospheric argon: Implications for sources of volatiles, J. Geophys. Res., 101, No. E, 14,933-14,949, 1996
*Hutchins, K.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Impact of a paleo-magnetic field on sputtering loss of martian atmospheric argon and neon, J. Geophys. Res., In Press, 1996
*Hutchins, K.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Sources of martian atmospheric volatiles, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1996
*Hutchins, K.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Carbonates in martian meteorite ALH84001: A planetary perspective on formation temperature, Geophys. Res. Lett., In Press, 1996
*Jakosky, B.M., Warm havens for life on Mars, New Scientist, 150, 38-42, 1996
*Jakosky, B.M., Martian stable isotopes: Volatile evolution, climate change, and exobiological implications, Orig. Life Evol. Biosphere, Submitted, 1996
*Jakosky, B.M., R.C. Reedy, and J. Masarik, Carbon 14 measurements of the martian atmosphere as an indicator of atmosphere-regolith exchange of CO2, J. Geophys. Res., 101, 2247–2252, 1996
*Mellon, M.T., B.M. Jakosky, and S.E. Postawko, The persistence of equatorial ground ice on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1996
*Urquhart, M.L., and B.M. Jakosky, Constraints on the solid-state greenhouse effect on the icy Galileo satellites, J. Geophys. Res., 101, No. E, 21,169-21,176, 1996
*Urquhart, M.L., and B.M. Jakosky, Lunar thermal emission and remote determination of surface properties, J. Geophys. Res., In Press, 1996
*Brain, D.A., and B.M. Jakosky, Atmospheric loss since the onset of the martian geologic record: The combined role of impact erosion and sputtering, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1997
*Henderson, B.G., and B.M. Jakosky, Near-surface thermal gradients and mid-IR emission spectra: A new model including scattering and application to real data, J. Geophys. Res., 102, No. E, 6567-6580, 1997
*Hutchins, K.S.y, B.M. Jakosky, and J.G. Luhmann, Impact of a paleomagnetic field on sputtering loss of Martian atmospheric argon and neon, J. Geophys. Res., 102, No. E, 9183-9189, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., Mars mission satisfies age-old need to explore, Op-Ed piece, Daily Camera, 1-20, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., Martian exobiology, J. Geophys. Res., 102, 23,673-23,674, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., Mars life? One year later, The Planetary Report, 17, 10-13, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., Laying out the evidence: The case for life on Mars, Planetary Report, 17, 12-17, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., A.P. Zent and R.W. Zurek, The Mars water cycle: Determining the role of exchange with the regolith, Icarus, 130, 87-95, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., and E.L. Shock, The biological potential of Mars, the early Earth, and Europa, J. Geophys. Res, Submitted, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., and J.H. Jones, The history of martian volatiles, Rev. Geophys., 135, 1-16, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., and J.H. Jones, The History of Martian Volatiles, Rev. of Geophys., 35, No. 1, 1-16, 1997
*Jakosky, B.M., and others, Preliminary results of the Clementine Long-Wave Infrared Camera, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1997
*Urquhart, M.L., and B.M. Jakosky, Lunar thermal emission and remote determination of surface properties, J. Geophys. Res., 102, No. E, 10,959-10,969, 1997
*Brain, D.A., and B.M. Jakosky, Atmospheric loss since the onset of the martian geologic record: Combined role of impact erosion and sputtering, J. Geophys. Res., 103, 22,689-22,694, 1998
*Colaprete, A., and B.M. Jakosky, Ice flow and rock glaciers on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., 103, 5897-5909, 1998
*Jakosky, B.M., Opinion: Searching for life in the universe, The Planetary Report, July/, 1998
*Jakosky, B.M., Searching for life in our solar system, Sci. American Presents... (Magnificent Cosmos), 9(1), 16-21, 1998
*Jakosky, B.M., and E.L. Shock, The biological potential of Mars, the early Earth, and Europa, J. Geophys. Res., 103, 19,359-19,364, 1998
*Jakosky, B.M., et al., Long-wave infrared observations of the Moon from the Clementine spacecraft: Preliminary results, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1998
*Jakosky, B.M., Martian stable isotopes: Volatile evolution, climate change, and exobiological implications, Origins Life Evolution Biospheres, 29, 47-57, 1999
*Jakosky, B.M., The atmospheres of the terrestrial planets, in The New Solar System, 4th ed., edited by J.K. Beatty, C.C. Peterson, and A. Chaikin, Sky Publishing Corp., 175-192, 1999
*Jakosky, B.M., Water, climate and life, ''Science'', 283, 648-649, 1999
*Jakosky, B.M., M.T. Mellon, H.H. Kieffer, P.R. Christensen, E.S. Varnes, S.W. Lee, The thermal inertia of Mars from the Mars Global Surveyor Thermal Emission Spectrometer, J. Geophys. Res., In Press, 1999
*Jakosky, B.M., and M.P. Golombek, Planetary science, astrobiology, and the role of science and exploration in society, EOS (Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union) Forum, In Press, 1999
*Lawson, S.L., B.M. Jakosky, H.-S. Park, and M.T. Mellon, The Clementine Long-wave infrared global data set: Brightness temperatures of the lunar surface, J. Geophys. Res., In Press, 1999
*Urquhart, M.L., and B.M. Jakosky, Impact of near-surface thermal gradients on lunar thermal emission and subsurface temperatures, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1999
*Varnes, E.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Stability and lifetime of organic molecules at the surface of Europs, Icarus, Submitted, 1999
*B.M. Jakosky, Philosophical aspects of astrobiology, in "Bioastronomy '99: A New Era in Bioastronomy", edited by G.A. Lemarchand and K.J. Meech, Astron. Soc. Pac., 661-666, In Press, 2000
*Jakosky, B.M. and M.P. Golombeck, Planetary science, astrobiology, and the role of science and exploration in society, EOS (Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union) Forum, 81, No.6, 58, In Press, 2000
*Jakosky, B.M. and M.T. Mellon, Thermal inertia of Mars: Sites of exobiological interest, J. Geophys. Res., In Press, 2000
*Jakosky, B.M., M.T. Mellon, H.H. Kieffer, P.R. Christensen, E.S. Varnes and S.W. Lee, The thermal inertia of Mars from the Mars Global Surveyor Thermal Emission Spectrometer, J. Geophys. Res., 105, 9643-9652, In Press, 2000
*Lawson, S.L., B.M. Jakosky, H.-S. Park and M.T. Mellon, Brightness temperatures of the lunar surface: Calibration and global analysis of the Clementine long-wave infrared camera d, J. Geophys. Res., 105, No.E2, 4273-4290, In Press, 2000
*Mellon, M.T., B.M. Jakosky, H.H. Kieffer and P.R. Christensen, High-resolution thermal-inertia mapping from the Mars Global Surveyor Thermal Emission Spectrometer, Icarus, 148, 437-455, In Press, 2000
*Ruff, S.W., P.R. Christensen, R.N. Clark, H.H. Kieffer, M.C. Malin, J.L. Bandfield, B.M. Jakosky, M.D. Lane, M.T. Mellon and M.A. Presley, Mars' "White Rock" feature lacks evidence of an aqueous origin: Results from Mars Global Surveyor, J. Geophys. Res., In Press, 2000
*Pelkey, S.M., B.M. Jakosky and M.T. Mellon, Thermal in inertia of crater-related wind streaks on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 2001
*Christensen, P.R., J.L. Bandfield, V.E. Hamilton, S.W. Ruff, H.H. Kieffer, T. Titus, M.C. Malin, R.V. Morris, M.D. Lane, R.L. Clark, B.M. Jakosky, M.T. Mellon, J.C. Pearl, B.J. Conrath, M.D. Smith, R.T. Clancy, R.O. Kuzmin, T. Roush, G.L. Mehall, N. Gorel, Mars Global Surveyor Thermal Emission Spectrometer experiment: Investigation description and surface science results, J. Geophys. Res., 106, 23,823-23,871, 2001
*Colwell, J.E. and B.M. Jakosky, Effects of topography on thermal infrared spectra of planetary surfaces, J. Geophys. Res., 107, No. E, 16-1 to 16-6, 10.1029/2001JE001829, 2001
*Jakosky, B.M. and M.T. Mellon, High-resolution thermal-inertia mapping of Mars: Sites of exobiological relevance, J. Geophys. Res., 106, 23,887-23,907, 2001
*Jakosky, B.M. and R.J. Phillips, Mars' volatile and climate history, ''Nature'', 412, 237-244, 2001
*Jakosky, B.M., and M.T. Mellon, High-resolution thermal-inertia mapping of mars: Sites of exobiological relevance, J. Geophys. Res., 106, E10, 23,165-23,907, 2001
*Jakosky, B.M., and R.J. Phillips, Mars volatile and climate evolution: Water the major constraints?, Nature (Insight), 412, 6843, 237-244, 2001
*Lawson, S.L. and B.M. Jakosky, Lunar surface thermophysical properties derived from Clementine LWIR and UVVIS images, J. Geophys. Res., 106, 27911-27932, 2001
*Pelkey, S.M., B.M. Jakosky and M.T. Mellon, Thermal inertia of crater-related wind streaks on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., 106, E10, 23,909-23,920, 2001
*Phillips, R.J., M.T. Zuber, S.C. Solomon, M.P. Golombek, B.M. Jakosky, W.B. Banerdt, D. E. Smith, R.M.E. Williams, B.M. Hynek, O. Aharonson, and S.A. Hauck II, Ancient geodynamics and global-scale hydrology on Mars, ''Science'', 291, 2587–2591, 2001
*Ruff, S.W., P.R. Christensen, R.N. Clark, H.H. Kieffer, M.C. Malin, J.L. Bandfield, B.M. Jakosky, M.D. Lane, M.T. Mellon, and M.A. Presley, Mars' White Rock feature lacks evidence of an aqueous origin: Results from Mars Global Surveyor, J. Geophys. Res., 106, 23,921-23,927, 2001
*Pelkey, S.M. and B.M. Jakosky, Surficial geologic surveys of Gale Crater and Melas Crater, Mars, Icarus, 160, 228-257, 2002
*Drake, M.J. and B.M. Jakosky, Narrow horizons in astrobiology, ''Nature'', 415, 733-734, 2004
*Pelkey, S.M., B.M. Jakosky, and P.R. Christensen (2004). Surficial properties in Gale Crater, Mars, from Mars Odyssey THEMIS data, Icarus, 167, 244-270.
*Jakosky, B.M. and M.T. Mellon (2004). Water on Mars, Phys. Today, 57, 71-76.
*Jakosky, B.M., F. Westall, and A. Brack (2004). Mars, in Astrobiology (J. Baross and W. Sullivan, eds.), in press.
*Christensen, P.R., S.W. Ruff, R. Fergason, N. Gorelick, B.M. Jakosky, M.D. Lane, A.S. McEwen, H.Y. McSween, G.L. Mehall, K. Milam, J.E. Moersch, S.M. Pelkey, A.D. Rogers, and M.B. Wyatt (2005). Mars Exploration Rover candidate landing sites as viewed by THEMIS, Icarus, 176, 12-43.
*Solomon, S.C., O. Aharonson, J.M. Aurnou, W.B. Banerdt, M.H. Carr, A.J. Dombard, H.V. Frey, M.P. Golombek, S.A. Hauck II, J.W. Head III. B.M. Jakosky, C.L. Johnson, P.J. McGovern, G.A. Neumann, R.J. Phillips, D.E. Smith, and M.T. Zuber (2005). New perspectives on ancient Mars, ''Science'', 307, 1214-1220.
*Jakosky, B.M., M.T. Mellon, E.S. Varnes, W.C. Feldman, W.V. Boynton, and R.M. Haberle (2005). Mars low-latitude neutron distribution: Possible remnant near-surface water ice and a mechanism for its recent emplacement, Icarus, 175, 58-67.
*Martinez-Alonso, S., B.M. Jakosky, M.T. Mellon, and N.E. Putzig (2005). A volcanic interpretation of Gusev Crater surface materials from thermophysical, spectral, and morphological evidence, J. Geophys. Res., 110, E01003, {{doi|10.1029/2004JE002327}}.
*Christensen, P.R., H.Y. McSween, Jr., J. L. Bandfield, S.W. Ruff, A.D. Rogers, V.E. Hamilton, N. Gorelick, M. B. Wyatt, B.M. Jakosky, H. H. Kieffer, M.C. Malin, and J. E. Moersch (2005), Evidence for magmatic evolution and diversity on Mars from infrared observations, Nature, {{doi|10.1038/nature03639}}.
*Link, L.S., B.M. Jakosky, and G.D. Thyne (2005). Biological potential of low-temperature aqueous environments on Mars, Int. J. Astrobiology, 4, 155-164.
*Martinez-Alonso, S., M.T. Mellon, B.C. Kindel, and B.M. Jakosky (2006). Mapping compositional diversity on the surface of Mars: The spectral variance index, J. Geophys. Res., 111, 10.1029/2005JE002492.
*Chojnacki, M., B.M. Jakosky, and B.M. Hynek (2006). Surficial properties of landslides and surrounding units in Ophir Chasma, Mars, J. Geophys. Res., 111, E04005, {{doi|10.1029/2005JE002601}}
*Jakosky, B. M., B. M. Hynek, S. M. Pelkey, M. T. Mellon, S. Martínez-Alonso, N. E. Putzig, N. Murphy, and P. R. Christensen (2006). Thermophysical properties of the MER and Beagle II landing site regions on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., 111, E08008, {{doi|10.1029/2004JE002320}}.
*Des Marais, D.J., B.M. Jakosky, and B.M. Hynek (2006). Astrobiological implications of Mars surface composition and properties, in Mars Surface Composition, Mineralogy, and Physical Properties, J.F. Bell III, ed., Cambridge Univ. Press, in press.
{{Refend}}

==參考資料==
{{Reflist}}

==外部連結==
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20081007151929/http://www.colorado.edu/GeolSci/faculty/jakosky.html Bruce M. Jakosky]
*[http://lasp.colorado.edu/maven/ Maven Mission Website]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20080919002937/http://www.colorado.edu/news/reports/maven/ CU Boulder Maven special report]

{{DEFAULTSORT:Jakosky, Bruce}}
[[Category:美國地質學家|Category:美國地質學家]]
[[Category:行星科學家|Category:行星科學家]]
[[Category:加州理工學院校友|Category:加州理工學院校友]]
[[Category:科羅拉多大學博爾德分校教師|Category:科羅拉多大學博爾德分校教師]]