{{NoteTA
|G1=Butterfly
}}
{{Automatic taxobox
| taxon = Pierini
| image = Artogeia napi M 1.jpg
| image_caption = [[暗脈菜粉蝶|暗脈菜粉蝶]]<br />''Pieris napi''
| authority = Swainson, 1820
| diversity = 亞族和屬列表
| diversity_link = 粉蝶科分類列表#粉蝶族
| subdivision_ranks = 亞族
| subdivision = 
* [[尖粉蝶亞族|尖粉蝶亞族]] ''Appiadina''
* [[粉蝶亞族|粉蝶亞族]] ''Pierina''
* [[絹粉蝶亞族|絹粉蝶亞族]] ''Aporiina''
'''地位未定'''
* [[蘇粉蝶屬|蘇粉蝶屬]] ''Sinopieris''
}}

'''粉蝶族'''（學名：'''''Pierini'''''）是[[鱗翅目|鱗翅目]][[粉蝶科|粉蝶科]][[粉蝶亞科|粉蝶亞科]]中的一個[[族_(生物)|族]]。共有3個亞族和44個屬。

== 種系發生 ==
粉蝶族有3個[[演化支|演化支]]，各成為一個亞族<ref name=b2006>Braby, M., R. Vila, and N. E. Pierce. 2006. Molecular phylogeny and systematics of the Pieridae (Lepidoptera: Papilionoidea): higher classification and biogeography. Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 147(2):239-275.</ref>，分別有尖粉蝶亞族、粉蝶亞族和絹粉蝶亞族。

== 演化樹 ==
{{clade
|label1='''粉蝶族'''
|1={{clade
|1=[[尖粉蝶亞族|尖粉蝶亞族]] ''Appiadina''
|2={{clade
|1=[[粉蝶亞族|粉蝶亞族]] ''Pierina''
|2=[[絹粉蝶亞族|絹粉蝶亞族]] ''Aporiina''}}
[[蘇粉蝶屬|蘇粉蝶屬]] ''Sinopieris'' (地位未定)}}}}

== 腳註 ==
<references/>

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Commons category| Pierini}}
{{Wikispecies| Pierini}}
* Wahlberg, N., Rota, J., Braby, M. F., Pierce, N. P. & Wheat, C. W. 2014: Revised systematics and higher classification of pierid butterflies (Lepidoptera: Pieridae) based on molecular data. Zoologica Scripta 43: 641-650. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/zsc.12075 doi:10.1111/zsc.12075] {{en}}
* Braby, M. F. 2005. Provisional checklist of genera of the Pieridae (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae). Zootaxa 832:1–16.
* Pollock, D. D., W. B. Watt, V. K. Rashbrook, and E. V. Iyengar. 1998. Molecular phylogeny for Colias butterflies and their relatives (Lepidoptera: Pieridae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 91(5):524-531.
* Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2006. Pierinae Duponchel 1835. Version 04 October 2006 (temporary). http://tolweb.org/Pierinae/12216/2006.10.04 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Pierinae/12216/2006.10.04 |date=20191130171450 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

== 外部連結 ==
* [http://ftp.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/pieridae/pierinae/#Pierini ''Pierini''] {{Wayback|url=http://ftp.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/pieridae/pierinae/#Pierini |date=20160803042614 }} - ftp.funet.fi

{{粉蝶亞科|state=expanded}}
{{Taxonbar}}

[[Category:1820年描述的分类群|F]]
[[Category:粉蝶族|*]]
[[Category:粉蝶亞科|F]]