{{noteTA
|1=zh-cn:节奏布鲁斯; zh-hk:節奏藍調; zh-tw:節奏藍調; zh-sg:节奏蓝调;
|2=zh-cn:布鲁斯; zh-hk:藍調; zh-tw:藍調; zh-sg:蓝调;}}
{{Infobox musical artist
|name                =波·迪德利<br/>{{lang|en|Bo Diddley}}
|image               =Bo Diddley Prag 2005 02.jpg
|background          =solo_singer
|birth_name          ={{lang|en|Ellas Otha Bates}}
|alias               ={{lang|en|Ellas McDaniel}}
|birth_date          = {{birth date|1928|12|30}}
|birth_place         = 美国[[密西西比州|密西西比州]][[麦库姆_(密西西比州)|麦库姆]]
|death_date          = {{death date and age|2008|06|2|1928|12|30}}
|death_place         = 美国[[弗羅里達州|弗羅里達州]][[阿切尔_(佛罗里达州)|阿切尔]]
|instrument          =人声、吉他、小提琴、键盘、打击乐器、架子鼓
|genre               =[[芝加哥布鲁斯|芝加哥布鲁斯]]、[[节奏布鲁斯|节奏布鲁斯]]、[[摇滚|摇滚]]、[[布鲁斯|布鲁斯]]
|occupation          =创作歌手
|years_active        =1943–2007
|label               =[[Checker_Records|Checker]], [[Chess_Records|Chess]], BoKay Productions, [[RCA_Victor|RCA]], MF Productions, [[Triple_X_Records|Triple X]], [[Atlantic_Records|Atlantic]]
|associated_acts     =
|website             =[http://www.bodiddley.com BoDiddley.com]
|notable_instruments =[[Gretsch|Gretsch]] G6138
Kinman custom (pictured below)
}}
'''埃拉斯·欧萨·贝茨'''（{{lang-en|Ellas Otha Bates}}，{{bd|1928年|12月30日|2008年|6月2日}}），艺名为'''波·迪德利'''（{{lang|en|'''Bo Diddley'''}}），是一位美国[[节奏布鲁斯|节奏布鲁斯]]歌手、吉他手和词曲作者（署名通常为'''埃拉斯·麦克丹尼尔'''（{{lang|en|Ellas McDaniel}}））。他是[[布鲁斯|布鲁斯]]过渡到[[摇滚|摇滚]]的关键人物，对很多后辈有深远的影响，包括[[埃爾維斯·皮禮士利|-{zh-tw:艾維斯·普里斯萊;zh-hk:埃爾維斯·皮禮士利; zh-cn:埃尔维斯·普雷斯利;}-]]<ref>{{Cite book|last= Fox |first= Ted |title= Showtime at the Apollo |publisher= Da Capo |year= 1983 |isbn= 978-0-306-80503-5 |pages=5 & 92 |quote=Elvis Presley, a young, still raw hayseed, was making his first trip to the Big Apple to see his new record company, and the Apollo was where he wanted to be. Night after night in New York he sat in the Apollo transfixed by the pounding rhythms, the dancing and prancing, the sexual spectacle of rhythm-and-blues masters like Bo Diddley...In 1955, Elvis's stage presence was still rudimentary. But watching Bo Diddley charge up the Apollo crowd undoubtedly had a profound effect on him. When he returned to New York a few months later for his first national television appearance, on Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey's "Stage Show," he again spent hours at the Apollo after rehearsals. On the Dorsey show Elvis shocked the entire country with his outrageous hip-shaking performance, and the furor that followed made him an American sensation.}}</ref>、[[滚石乐队|滚石乐队]]、[[埃里克·克莱普顿|埃里克·克莱普顿]]<ref name="Mick">{{cite web |url=http://showbizspy.com/news/06032008/mick-jagger-leads-tribute-for-diddley |title=Mick Jagger Leads Tribute For Diddley |accessdate=October 27, 2008 |last=WENN |date=June 3, 2008 |work=showbizspy.com |archive-date=2008-11-22 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20081122030542/http://www.showbizspy.com/news/06032008/mick-jagger-leads-tribute-for-diddley |dead-url=no }}</ref>等等。他以技术创新闻名，比如他标志性的方形吉他。他创造的节拍型至今仍是[[嘻哈音樂|嘻哈音樂]]、[[摇滚乐|摇滚乐]]和[[流行_(音樂類型)|流行乐]]的基石<ref>{{cite web|title=Bo Diddley|url=http://www.rollingstone.com/music/artists/bo-diddley/biography|work=[[Rolling_Stone|Rolling Stone]]|accessdate=April 26, 2012|year=2001|archive-date=2018-01-02|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20180102013422/https://www.rollingstone.com/music/artists/bo-diddley/biography|dead-url=no}}</ref>。迪德利于1987年进入[[摇滚名人堂|摇滚名人堂]]。他也获得了格莱美终身成就奖。

== 参考资料 ==
{{Reflist}}

{{摇滚名人堂1987届入选者}}

{{Authority control}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Diddley, Bo}}
[[Category:非洲裔美國音樂家|Category:非洲裔美國音樂家]]
[[Category:美國男創作歌手|Category:美國男創作歌手]]
[[Category:葛萊美終身成就獎獲得者|Category:葛萊美終身成就獎獲得者]]
[[Category:密西西比州人|Category:密西西比州人]]
[[Category:摇滚名人堂入选者|Category:摇滚名人堂入选者]]