'''波旁-孔德府邸'''（{{lang-fr|Hôtel de Bourbon-Condé}}）是位於[[法國|法國]]首都巴黎7區的一座豪宅。波旁-孔德府邸始建於1780年<ref>Bauchal (1887), p. 615. This source calls the building the Hôtel de Mademoiselle de Condé and incorrectly states that it was demolished sometime before 1887.</ref><ref name=Braham>Braham (1980), pp. 215, 216.</ref>。
==參考資料==
* Bauchal, Charles (1887). ''Nouveau dictionnaire biographique et critique des architectes français'' {{fr-icon}}. Paris: André, Daly Fils. [http://books.google.com/books?id=TkwAAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA615#v=onepage&q&f=false View] {{Wayback|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=TkwAAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA615#v=onepage&q&f=false |date=20140707073343 }} at [[Google_Books|Google Books]]
* Braham, Allan (1980). ''The architecture of the French enlightenment'', pp. 210–219. Berkeley, California: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-04117-2. [http://books.google.com/books?id=0_dLanpQfeAC&lpg=PA215&pg=PA210#v=onepage&q&f=false Limited view] {{Wayback|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=0_dLanpQfeAC&lpg=PA215&pg=PA210#v=onepage&q&f=false |date=20170802143805 }} at [[Google_Books|Google Books]].
* Cunningham, Peter, ed. (1906). ''The letters of Horace Walpole: fourth earl of Orford'', vol. 9, p. 14. Edinburgh: John Grant. [http://books.google.com/books?id=43Y4AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA14&cd=1#v=onepage&q&f=false View] {{Wayback|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=43Y4AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA14&cd=1#v=onepage&q&f=false |date=20140707074020 }} at [[Google_Books|Google Books]].
* Levey, Michael (1995). ''Painting and Sculpture in France 1700-1789''. New Haven, Connecticut: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-06494-0. [http://books.google.com/books?id=05qiZ2W9KFMC&lpg=PA243&pg=PA243#v=onepage Limited view] {{Wayback|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=05qiZ2W9KFMC&lpg=PA243&pg=PA243#v=onepage |date=20170619172622 }} at [[Google_Books|Google Books]].
* Parker, James (1967). "Clodion's Bas-Reliefs from the Hôtel de Condé" in ''The Metropolitan Museum of Art Bulletin'' New Series, '''25'''.6 (February 1967): 230–241. {{Cite web |url=http://www.metmuseum.org/toah/bibliography/?id=10263 |title=存档副本 |access-date=2015-10-06 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120405152823/http://www.metmuseum.org/toah/bibliography/?id=10263 |archive-date=2012-04-05 |dead-url= }}, originally available at metmuseum.org.
== 外部連結 ==
{{Commons category|Hôtel de Bourbon-Condé}}
* Photographs of the building exterior, interior and grounds: [http://club.doctissimo.fr/riesener/blog/bourbon-paris-viieme-4000231.html HP Bourbon-Condé, Paris VIIème - Blog de riesener - Club Doctissimo] {{Webarchive|url=https://archive.is/20130213102603/http://club.doctissimo.fr/riesener/blog/bourbon-paris-viieme-4000231.html |date=2013-02-13 }}.
* Facade of 12 rue Monsieur: [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=12+rue+Monsieur,+Paris,+France&sll=48.851282,2.316549&sspn=0.003159,0.005059&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=12+Rue+Monsieur,+75007+Paris,+Ile-de-France,+France&ll=48.850899,2.316348&spn=0.00079,0.001265&t=h&z=20&layer=c&cbll=48.85101,2.316314&panoid=G4M4MC3-CsJXb2fj9_iY-Q&cbp=12,239.51,,0,-7.33 street view] at [[Google_Maps|Google Maps]].
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20090609150054/http://www.insecula.com/article/F0000190.html "Le décor de la cour de l'hôtel de Bourbon-Condé par Clodion (1738-1814)"] at insecula.com. {{fr-icon}} [Photos no longer available.]
{{Coord|48|51|3.13|N|2|18|56.66|E|display=title}}
[[Category:巴黎建筑物|Category:巴黎建筑物]]