{{NoteTA
|G1=Butterfly
}}
{{distinguish|擬眼蛺蝶屬}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Junonia
| authority = Hübner, [1819]
| fossil_range = {{fossilrange|31|0|earliest=41}}<small>從[[漸新世|漸新世]]至今<ref name=w2006>Wahlberg, N. 2006. That awkward age for butterflies: insights from the age of the butterfly subfamily Nymphalinae. Systematic Biology 55:703-714. {{en}}</ref></small>
| image = Flickr - ggallice - Junonia genoveva, Yaupi.jpg
| image_caption = [[育齡眼蛺蝶|育齡眼蛺蝶]]<br />''Junonia genoveva''
| type_species = 眼蛺蝶／紅樹林眼蛺蝶<br />''Junonia evarete''
| type_species_authority = (Cramer, [1779])
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共35種，詳見正文。
| synonyms =
* ''Alcyoneis'' <small>Hübner 1819</small>
* ''Kamilla'' <small>Collins & Larsen 1991</small>
}}

'''眼蛺蝶屬'''（'''Buckeye'''，'''Pansy'''，'''Commodore'''，學名：'''''Junonia'''''）是[[蛺蝶亞科|蛺蝶亞科]][[眼蛺蝶族|眼蛺蝶族]]中的一個[[屬|屬]]。物種廣泛分佈於[[東洋界|東洋界]]、[[新北界|新北界]]及[[非洲|非洲]]。在[[種系發生學|種系發生學]]中，眼蛺蝶屬與''[[Precis|Precis]]''進化於不同的[[演化支|演化支]]，此屬亦包括了一些原本歸入''Kamilla''的物種以及''[[Protogoniomorpha|Protogoniomorpha]]''的[[藍褐矩蛺蝶|藍褐矩蛺蝶]]<ref>Wahlberg N, Brower AVZ, and Nylin S. 2005. Phylogenetic relationships of tribes and genera in the subfamily Nymphalinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) based on three gene sequences. Biol. J. Linn. Soc. 86: 227-251.</ref>。

本屬中'''''J. orithya'''''在台灣稱為「-{'''青眼蛺蝶'''}-」，跟同屬另一種'''''J. oenone'''''由中國學者同樣命名為-{[[青眼蛺蝶|青眼蛺蝶]]}-，因台灣未有記載該種的名稱而容易混淆。另外「-{'''眼蛺蝶'''}-」一名亦同樣出現命名衝突，台灣學者是指'''''J. almana'''''（在中國稱-{美眼蛺蝶}-），中國的是指'''''J. evarete'''''（在台灣稱-{紅樹林眼蛺蝶}-）<ref>{{Cite book | author = 徐堉峰 | title = 《臺灣蝴蝶圖鑑．下【蛺蝶】》 | location = 台灣 | publisher = 晨星出版有限公司 | date = 2013年3月10日 | ISBN = 9789861776682 | language= zh-hant }}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* -{A|zh-cn:[[眼蛱蝶|眼蛱蝶]]; zh-hk:[[眼蛺蝶|眼蛺蝶]]; zh-tw:[[眼蛺蝶|紅樹林眼蛺蝶]]; zh-sg:[[眼蛱蝶|眼蛱蝶]];}- ''Junonia evarete'' = ''J. lavinia''——'''不是分佈在台灣的蝶種'''
* [[北美眼蛺蝶|北美眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia coenia''
* [[育齡眼蛺蝶|育齡眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia genoveva''
* [[維斯眼蛺蝶|維斯眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia vestina''
* -{A|zh-cn:[[翠蓝眼蛱蝶|翠蓝眼蛱蝶]]; zh-hk:[[翠藍眼蛺蝶|翠藍眼蛺蝶]]; zh-tw:[[翠藍眼蛺蝶|青眼蛺蝶]]; zh-sg:[[翠蓝眼蛱蝶|翠蓝眼蛱蝶]];}- ''Junonia orithya''
* [[青眼蛺蝶|青眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia oenone'' = 藍球眼蛺蝶 ''J. clelia''——'''不是分佈在台灣的蝶種'''
* [[敏捷眼蛺蝶|敏捷眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia villida''
* [[黃裳眼蛺蝶|黃裳眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia hierta''
* [[哈眼蛺蝶|哈眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia hadrope''
* [[微眼蛺蝶|微眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia westermanni''
* [[優雅眼蛺蝶|優雅眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia rhadama''
* [[鉤翅眼蛺蝶|鉤翅眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia iphita''
* [[歡樂眼蛺蝶|歡樂眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia hedonia''
* [[聯珠眼蛺蝶|聯珠眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia intermedia''
* [[艾麗眼蛺蝶|艾麗眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia erigone'' ＝ 艾雯眼蛺蝶 ''J. evigone'' [sic?]
* [[鐵木眼蛺蝶|鐵木眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia timorensis''
* [[冥眼蛺蝶|冥眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia stygia''
* ''[[Junonia_gregorii|Junonia gregorii]]''
* [[沙菲眼蛺蝶|沙菲眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia sophia''
* [[黃帶眼蛺蝶|黃帶眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia terea''
* [[苟眼蛺蝶|苟眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia goudoti''
* [[娜眼蛺蝶|娜眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia natalica''
* [[超群眼蛺蝶|超群眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia chorimene''
* [[波紋眼蛺蝶|波紋眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia atlites''
* -{A|zh-cn:[[美眼蛱蝶|美眼蛱蝶]]; zh-hk:[[美眼蛺蝶|美眼蛺蝶]]; zh-tw:[[美眼蛺蝶|眼蛺蝶]]; zh-sg:[[美眼蛱蝶|美眼蛱蝶]];}- ''Junonia almana''
* [[蛇眼蛺蝶|蛇眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia lemonias''
* [[媚女眼蛺蝶|媚女眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia adulatrix''
* [[圓裳眼蛺蝶|圓裳眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia infracta''
* [[塔眼蛺蝶|塔眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia tareta''
* [[青衫眼蛺蝶|青衫眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia artaxia''
* [[多彩眼蛺蝶|多彩眼蛺蝶]] ''Junonia touhilimasa''
* [[黑框枯葉蛺蝶|黑框枯葉蛺蝶]] ''Junonia ansorgei''
* [[紅弧枯葉蛺蝶|紅弧枯葉蛺蝶]] ''Junonia cymodoce''
* [[藍褐矩蛺蝶|藍褐矩蛺蝶]] ''Junonia cytora''
* [[藍矩蛺蝶|藍矩蛺蝶]] ''Junonia temora''
* ''[[Junonia_africana|Junonia africana]]''

== 參見 ==
* ''[[Precis|Precis]]''
* ''[[Protogoniomorpha|Protogoniomorpha]]''
* [[矩蛺蝶屬|矩蛺蝶屬]]
* [[枯葉蛺蝶屬|枯葉蛺蝶屬]]

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Commons category|  Junonia}}
* Ackery PR, Smith CR, and Vane-Wright RI eds. 1995. Carcasson's African butterflies. Canberra: CSIRO.
* Corbet AS, Pendlebury HM, and Eliot JN. 1992. The butterflies of the Malay Peninsula. Malayan Nature Society, Kuala Lumpur.
* Kodandaramaiah, U. & Wahlberg, N. 2007 Out-of-Africa origin and dispersal-mediated diversification of the butterfly genus Junonia (Nymphalidae: Nymphalinae). Journal of Evolutionary Biology xx, 1-6.
* Parsons M. 1999. The butterflies of Papua New Guinea: their systematics and biology. Academic Press, San Diego.
* Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2009. Junonia Hübner 1819. Buckeyes and Pansies. Version 06 May 2009 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Junonia/70320/2009.05.06 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Junonia/70320/2009.05.06 |date=20191201004529 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}
* {{Cite book | author = 呂至堅、陳建仁 | title = 《蝴蝶生活史圖鑑》 | location = 台灣 | publisher = 晨星出版有限公司 | date = 2014年3月23日 | ISBN = 9789861777849 | language= zh-hant }}
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

{{蛺蝶亞科}}

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_1819年描述的分类群|Y]]
[[Category:眼蛺蝶族|Y]]
[[Category:眼蛺蝶屬|*]]