{{Untranslated-jargon}}
'''哈佛经典'''（Harvard Classics）是一套五十一卷本的经典图书汇集，起源于[[哈佛大学|哈佛大学]]第二任校长[[查尔斯·爱略特|查尔斯·爱略特]]的“五英尺书架”（Dr. Eliot's Five Foot Shelf），于1909年出版第一版。

艾略特在一次演讲中说，人文教育可以通过每天花十五分钟阅读可以放在五英尺书架上的经典图书获得（最初的说法是三英尺）。出版商P. F. Collier and Son看到了机会并且请艾略特选择应该包含的图书，“哈佛经典”就是这件事情的结果。

== 書目 ==
NEW YORK: P.F.  COLLIER & SON, 1909–1917

*第1卷
**His Autobiography, by Benjamin Franklin
**《富兰克林自传》 [美][[本杰明·富兰克林|本杰明·富兰克林]]/著
**Journal, by John Woolman
**《乔治·沃尔曼日记》[美] 乔治·沃尔曼/著
**Fruits of Solitude, by William Penn
**《痛思录》[美]威廉·配恩/著


*第2卷
**The Apology, Phado and Crito of Plato
**《柏拉图对话录：辩解篇、菲多篇、克利多篇》[希腊]柏拉图/著
**The Golden Sayings of Epictetus
**《爱比克泰德金言录》[希腊] 爱比克泰德/著
**The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius
**《沉思录》 [罗马] 马库思·奥勒留/著


*第3卷
**Essays, Civil and Moral & The New Atlantis, by Francis Bacon
**培根论说文集及新阿特兰蒂斯 [英]弗兰西斯·培根/著
**Areopagitica & Tractate on Education, by John Milton
**米尔顿论出版自由与教育 [英]约翰·米尔顿/著
**Religio Medici, by Sir Thomas Browne
**虔诚的医生 [英]托马斯·布朗爵士


*第4卷
**Complete Poems Written in English, by John Milton
**约翰·米尔顿英文诗全集 [英]约翰·米尔顿/著

*第5卷
**Essays and English Traits, by Ralph Waldo Emerson
**《爱默生文集》[美]拉夫·沃尔多·爱默生/著

*第6卷
**Poems and Songs, by Robert Burns
**《伯恩斯诗歌集》 [苏格兰]罗伯特·伯恩斯/著


*第7卷
**The Confessions of Saint Augustine
**《忏悔录》圣奥古斯丁/著
**The Imitation of Christ, by Thomas à Kempis
**《效法基督》托玛斯·坎皮斯/著


*第8卷
**Agamemnon, The Libation-Bearers, The Furies & Prometheus Bound of Aeschylus
**Oedipus the King & Antigone of Sophocles
**Hippolytus & The Baccha of Euripides
**The Frogs of Aristophanes
**《希腊戏剧》埃斯库罗斯、索福克勒斯、尤里皮德斯、阿里斯托芬/著

*第9卷
**On Friendship, On Old Age & Letters, by Cicero
**《论友谊、论老年及书信集》[罗马]西塞罗/著
**Letters, by Pliny the Younger
**《书信集》[罗马]（小）普林尼/著

*第10卷
**Wealth of Nations, by Adam Smith
**《国富论》[英]亚当·斯密/著

*第11卷
**The Origin of Species, by Charles Darwin
**《物种起源论》[英]查尔斯·达尔文/著

*第12卷
**Lives, by Plutarch
**《比较列传》[希腊]普卢塔克/著

*第13卷
**AEneid, by Vergil
**《伊尼亚德》[罗马]维吉尔/著

*第14卷
**Don Quixote, Part 1, by Cervantes
**《唐吉珂德》[西班牙]塞万提斯/著

*第15卷
**The Pilgrim’s Progress, by John Bunyan
**《天路历程》[英]班扬/著
**The Lives of Donne and Herbert, by Izaak Walton
**《多恩与赫伯特生平》 [英]艾萨克·沃顿/著

*第16卷
**Stories from the Thousand and One Nights
**《天方夜谭》[英]爱德华·威廉·兰讷/译

*第17卷
**Fables, by Aesop
**Household Tales, by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm
**Tales, by Hans Christian Andersen
**《民间传说与寓言》伊索、格林、安徒生/著

*第18卷
**All for Love, by John Dryden
**The School for Scandal, by Richard Brinsley Sheridan
**She Stoops to Conquer, by Oliver Goldsmith
**The Cenci, by Percy Bysshe Shelley
**A Blot in the ‘Scutcheon, by Robert Browning
**Manfred, by Lord Byron
**《英国现代戏剧》 [英]德莱顿；谢里丹；歌德史密斯；雪莱；勃郎宁；拜伦

*第19卷
**Faust, Part I, Egmont & Hermann and Dorothea, by J.W. von Goethe
**《浮士德（第一幕）》 [德]歌德/著
**Dr. Faustus, by Christopher Marlowe
**《浮士德博士》 [英] 克里思托福·马洛/著

*第20卷
**The Divine Comedy, by Dante Alighieri
**《神曲》[意]但丁/著

*第21卷
**I Promessi Sposi, by Alessandro Manzoni
**《许婚的爱人》[意]曼佐尼/著

*第22卷
**The Odyssey of Homer
**《奥德赛》[希腊]荷马/著

*第23卷
**Two Years before the Mast, by Richard Henry Dana, Jr.
**《两年水手生涯》[美]（小）达纳/著


*第24卷
**On Taste, On the Sublime and Beautiful, Reflections on the French Revolution & A Letter to a Noble Lord, by Edmund Burke
**《伯克文集》 [英]爱德蒙·伯克/著


*第25卷
**Autobiography & On Liberty, by John Stuart Mill
**《穆勒文集》约翰·斯图亚特·穆勒/著
**Characteristics, Inaugural Address at Edinburgh & Sir Walter Scott, by Thomas Carlyle
**《卡莱尔文集》托马斯·卡莱尔/著


*第26卷
**Life Is a Dream, by Pedro Calderón de la Barca
**Polyeucte, by Pierre Corneille
**Phadra, by Jean Racine
**Tartuffe, by Molière
**Minna von Barnhelm, by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing
**Wilhelm Tell, by Friedrich von Schiller
**《欧洲大陆戏剧》卡尔德隆；高乃依；拉辛；莫里哀；莱辛；席勒/著

*第27卷
**English Essays: Sidney to Macaulay
**《英国名家随笔》菲利浦·锡德尼；本·简森；亚伯拉罕·考利；约瑟夫·爱迪生；里查德·斯迪尔；斯威夫特；丹尼尔·笛福；塞缪尔·约翰逊；休谟；西尼·史密斯；柯勒律治；威廉·哈兹利特；韩特；兰姆；德·昆西；雪莱；马库莱

*第28卷
**Essays: English and American
**《英国与美国名家随笔》萨克雷；纽曼；阿诺德；罗斯金；白芝皓；赫胥黎；佛里曼；斯蒂文森；钱宁；爱伦。坡；梭罗；洛威尔

*第29卷
**The Voyage of the Beagle, by Charles Darwin
**《比格尔号上的旅行》 [英] 查尔·达尔文/著

*第30卷
**Scientific Papers
**《科学论文集：物理学，化学；天文学；地质学》法拉第；赫姆霍尔兹；汤姆森；纽科姆；盖基/著

*第31卷
**The Autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini
**《契里尼自传》[意]本维努托·契里尼/著

*第32卷
**Literary and Philosophical Essays
**《文学和哲学名家随笔》（法国、德国、意大利卷）蒙田；布沃；勒南；拉辛；席勒；康德；马志尼；拜伦；歌德/著

*第33卷
**Voyages and Travels: Ancient and Modern
**《古代和现代著名航海与旅行记》希罗多德；德雷克；吉尔伯特；雷利/著

*第34卷
**Discourse on Method, by René Descartes
**Letters on the English, by Voltaire
**On the Inequality among Mankind & Profession of Faith of a Savoyard Vicar, by Jean Jacques Rousseau
**Of Man, Being the First Part of Leviathan, by Thomas Hobbes
**《法国和英国著名哲学家》笛卡尔；伏尔泰；罗素；霍布斯/著

*第35卷
**The Chronicles of Jean Froissart
**The Holy Grail, by Sir Thomas Malory
**A Description of Elizabethan England, by William Harrison
**《见闻与传奇》傅华萨；马洛尼；哈里森/著

*第36卷
**The Prince, by Niccolo Machiavelli
**《君王论》马基雅维利/著
**The Life of Sir Thomas More, by William Roper
《托马斯.莫尔传记》威廉.罗珀/著
**Utopia, by Sir Thomas More
**《乌托邦》托马斯·莫尔/著
**The Ninety-Five Thesis, Address to the Christian Nobility & Concerning Christian Liberty, by Martin Luther
**《马丁·路德论文和演讲集》马丁·路德/著


*第37卷
**Some Thoughts Concerning Education, by John Locke
**Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous in Opposition to Sceptics and Atheists, by George Berkeley
**An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, by David Hume
**《17、18世纪英国著名哲学家》洛克；伯克利；休谟/著


*第38卷
**The Oath of Hippocrates
**Journeys in Diverse Places, by Ambroise Paré
**On the Motion of the Heart and Blood in Animals, by William Harvey
**The Three Original Publications on Vaccination Against Smallpox, by Edward Jenner
**The Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever, by Oliver Wendell Holmes
**On the Antiseptic Principle of the Practice of Surgery, by Joseph Lister
**Scientific Papers, by Louis Pasteur
**Scientific Papers, by Charles Lyell
**《科学论文集：物理学、医学、外科学和地质学》帕雷；哈维；詹纳；霍姆斯；利斯特；巴斯德；赖尔/著


*第39卷
**Prefaces and Prologues
**《名著之前言与序言》卡克斯顿；喀尔文；哥白尼；诺克斯；斯宾塞；莱利；培根；


*第40卷
**English Poetry I: Chaucer to Gray
**英文诗集（卷I）：从乔叟到格雷


*第41卷
**English Poetry II: Collins to Fitzgerald
**英文诗集（卷II）：从科林斯到费兹杰拉德


*第42卷
**English Poetry II: Collins to Fitzgerald
**英文诗集（卷III）：从丁尼生到惠特曼


*第43卷
**American Historical Documents: 1000-1904
**美国历史文件：1000-1904


*第44卷
**Confucian: The Sayings of Confucius
**Hebrew: Job, Psalms & Ecclesiastes
**Christian I: Luke & Acts
**圣书（卷一）：孔子；希伯来书；基督圣经（I）


*第45卷
**Christian II: Corinthians I & II & Hymns
**Buddhist: Writings
**Hindu: The Bhagavad-Gita
**Mohammedan: Chapters from the Koran
**圣书（卷二）：基督圣经（II）；佛陀；印度教；穆罕默德


*第46卷
**Edward the Second, by Christopher Marlowe
**Hamlet, King Lear, Macbeth & The Tempest, by William Shakespeare
**伊利莎白时期戏剧（卷I）：爱德华二世马洛/著; 哈姆雷特，利尔王，麦克白，暴风骤雨 莎士比亚/著


*第47卷
**The Shoemaker’s Holiday, by Thomas Dekker
**The Alchemist, by Ben Jonson
**Philaster, by Beaumont and Fletcher
**The Duchess of Malfi, by John Webster
**A New Way to Pay Old Debts, by Philip Massinger
**伊利莎白时期戏剧（卷II）：德克；约翰逊；博蒙特；佛莱彻；韦伯斯特；马辛加/著

*第48卷
**Thoughts, Letters & Minor Works, by Blaise Pascal
**帕斯卡文集帕斯卡/著

*第49卷
**Epic & Saga: Beowulf, The Song of Roland, The Destruction of Dá Derga’s Hostel & The Story of the Volsungs and Niblungs
**史诗与传说
**贝奥武甫
**罗兰之歌
**鞑德嘎旅店的毁灭
**沃尔松和尼贝龙根之歌

*第50卷
**Lectures on the Harvard Classics
**哈佛经典讲座

== The Harvard Classics Shelf of Fiction ==

The Harvard Classics Shelf of Fiction was selected by Charles W.  Eliot, LLD (1834-1926), with notes and introductions by William Allan Neilson.  It also features an index to Criticisms and Interpretations.

* Vols.  1 & 2: The History of Tom Jones, by Henry Fielding
* Vols.  1 & 2: 《汤姆·琼斯》, 亨利·菲尔丁

* Vol.  3: A Sentimental Journey, by Laurence Sterne; Pride and Prejudice, by Jane Austen
* Vol.  3: 《一缕芳魂》，劳伦斯·斯特恩；《傲慢与偏见》，简·奥斯汀

* Vol.  4: Guy Mannering, by Sir Walter Scott
* Vol.  4: 《盖伊·曼纳林》，沃尔特·司各特

* Vol.  5 & 6: Vanity Fair, by William Makepeace Thackeray
* Vol.  5 & 6: 《名利场》，萨克雷

* Vols.  7 & 8: David Copperfield, by Charles Dickens
* Vols.  7 & 8：《大卫·科波维尔》，查尔斯·狄更斯

* Vol.  9: The Mill on the Floss, by George Eliot
* Vol.  9: 《弗洛斯河上的磨坊》，乔治. 艾略特

* Vol.  10: The Scarlet Letter & Rappaccini's Daughter, by Nathaniel Hawthorne; Rip Van Winkle & The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, by Washington Irving; Three Short Stories, by Edgar Allan Poe; Three Short Stories, by Francis Bret Harte; Jim Smiley and His Jumping Frog, by Samuel L.  Clemens; The Man Without a Country, by Edward Everett Hale
* Vol.  10: 《红字》& 《拉帕帕齐尼医生的女儿》，纳撒尼尔·霍桑；《李伯大梦》 & 《沉睡谷传奇》，华盛顿·欧文；三则短篇小说，埃德加·爱伦·坡；三则短篇小说，布雷·哈特；《吉姆•斯迈利和他的跳蛙》，萨慕尔·克莱门斯（马克·吐温）；《无国之人》，爱德华·埃弗雷特·希尔

* Vol.  11: The Portrait of a Lady, by Henry James
* Vol.  11: 《贵妇的肖像》，亨利·詹姆斯

* Vol.  12: Notre Dame de Paris, by Victor Marie Hugo
* Vol.  12: 《巴黎圣母院》，维克多·马里·雨果

* Vol.  13: Old Goriot, by Honoré de Balzac; The Devil's Pool, by George Sand; The Story of a White Blackbird, by Alfred de Musset; Five Short Stories, by Alphonse Daudet; Two Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant
* Vol.  13: 《高老头》，奥诺雷·德·巴尔扎克；《魔沼》，乔治·桑；《一只白色黑鸟的故事》，阿尔弗莱·德·缪塞；五则短篇小说，阿尔封斯·都德；两则短篇小说，居伊.德.莫泊桑

* Vols.  14 & 15: Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship & The Sorrows of Werther, by J.  W.  von Goethe; The Banner of the Upright Seven, by Gottfried Keller; The Rider on the White Horse, by Theodor Storm; Trials and Tribulations, by Theodor Fontane
* Vols.  14 & 15: 《威廉·迈斯特》 & 《少年维特的烦恼》，约翰·沃尔夫冈·冯·歌德；《七个传说》，高特费里特·凯勒；《白马骑士》，特奥多·施托姆；，《审判与磨难》，台奥多尔·冯塔纳

* Vols.  16 & 17: Anna Karenina & Ivan the Fool, by Leo Tolstoy
* Vols.  16 & 17: 《安娜·卡列尼娜》 & 《傻瓜伊万》，列夫·托尔斯泰

* Vol.  18: Crime and Punishment, by Fyodor Dostoevsky
* Vol.  18: 《罪与罚》，费奥多尔·陀思妥耶夫斯基

* Vol.  19: A House of Gentlefolk & Fathers and Children, by Ivan Turgenev
* Vol.  19: 《贵族之家》 & 《父与子》，伊万·屠格涅夫

* Vol.  20: Pepita Jimenez, by Juan Valera; A Happy Boy, by Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson; Skipper Worse, by Alexander L.  Kielland
* Vol.  20: 《佩皮塔·希门尼斯》，胡安·巴雷拉；《快乐男孩》，比昂斯滕·比昂松；《Skipper Worse》亚力克山德·基兰德

[[Category:1909年建立|H]]
[[Category:哈佛大學出版品|H]]