{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic taxobox
| taxon = Carcharodini
| image = Spialia galba Fabricius – Indian Grizzled Skipper on a Sida rhombifolia plant8.JPG
| image_caption = [[黃飾弄蝶|黃飾弄蝶]]<br />''Spialia galba''
| authority = Verity, 1940
| type_species = [[婀卡弄蝶|婀卡弄蝶]] <br />
''Papilio alceae''
| type_species_authority = Esper, 1780
| subdivision_ranks = [[屬|屬]]
| subdivision = 
有30個，詳見正文。
}}

'''卡弄蝶族'''（[[学名|学名]]：''Carcharodini''）是[[弄蝶科|弄蝶科]][[花弄蝶亞科|花弄蝶亞科]]裡的一個[[族_(生物)|族]]。物種分佈於泛熱帶地區。物種皆為小型，翅膀以[[啡色|啡色]]為主的弄蝶。

== 分類 ==
以下各屬是以[[種系發生|種系發生學]]過程排列<ref>{{Cite web |url= http://tolweb.org/Carcharodini/95260 |title= Carcharodini |accessdate= 2014-07-29 |work= Warren, A. D., Ogawa, J. R. & Brower, A. V. Z. 2009. Revised classification of the family Hesperiidae (Lepidoptera: Hesperioidea) based on combined molecular and morphological data. Systematic Entomology 34, 467-523. |publisher= Tree of Life Project |date= 2009-06-14 |archive-date= 2021-01-17 |archive-url= https://web.archive.org/web/20210117092759/http://www.tolweb.org/Carcharodini/95260 |dead-url= no }}</ref>：
* [[聰弄蝶屬|聰弄蝶屬]] ''Sophista''
* [[布弄蝶屬|布弄蝶屬]] ''Burca''
* [[伊弄蝶屬|伊弄蝶屬]] ''Iliana''
* [[三尖弄蝶屬|三尖弄蝶屬]] ''Jera''
* [[皺緣弄蝶屬|皺緣弄蝶屬]] ''Mictris''
* [[彌環蝶屬|彌環蝶屬]] ''Mimia''
* [[瑙弄蝶屬|瑙弄蝶屬]] ''Noctuana''
* [[霓弄蝶屬|霓弄蝶屬]] ''Nisoniades''
* [[蔽弄蝶屬|蔽弄蝶屬]] ''Pachyneuria''
* [[皮弄蝶屬|皮弄蝶屬]] ''Pellicia''
* [[多弄蝶屬|多弄蝶屬]] ''Polyctor''
* [[維弄蝶屬|維弄蝶屬]] ''Viola''
* [[雜弄蝶屬|雜弄蝶屬]] ''Bolla''
* [[綠頭弄蝶屬|綠頭弄蝶屬]] ''Gorgopas''
* [[貝弄蝶屬|貝弄蝶屬]] ''Staphylus''
* ''[[Hesperopsis|Hesperopsis]]''
* [[碎滴弄蝶屬|碎滴弄蝶屬]] ''Pholisora''
* [[石弄蝶屬|石弄蝶屬]] ''Gomalia''
* [[點弄蝶屬|點弄蝶屬]] ''Muschampia''
* [[卡弄蝶屬|卡弄蝶屬]] ''Carcharodus''
* [[飾弄蝶屬|飾弄蝶屬]] ''Spialia''
* [[雲弄蝶屬|雲弄蝶屬]] ''Arteurotia''
* [[昆弄蝶屬|昆弄蝶屬]] ''Conognathus''
* [[風弄蝶屬|風弄蝶屬]] ''Windia''
* [[環弄蝶屬|環弄蝶屬]] ''Cyclosemia''
* ''[[Fuscocimex|Fuscocimex]]''
* [[摹弄蝶屬|摹弄蝶屬]] ''Morvina''
* [[敏弄蝶屬|敏弄蝶屬]] ''Myrinia''
* [[眼弄蝶屬|眼弄蝶屬]] ''Ocella''
* [[匣弄蝶屬|匣弄蝶屬]] ''Xispia''

== 腳註 ==
<references/>

== 參考文獻 ==
* {{aut|Austin, G.T.}} 2008: Hesperiidae of Rondônia, Brazil: a new genus and species of Carcharodini (Pyrginae). ''Bulletin of the Allyn Museum'' '''158''': 1-7.
* {{aut|Lamas, G.}}, 2004: Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera; Checklist: Part 4A; Hesperioidea - Papilionoidea 
* {{aut|Steinhauser, S.R.}}, 1989: Taxonomic notes and descriptions of new taxa in the neotropical Hesperiidae. Part I. Pyrginae. ''Bulletin of the Allyn Museum'' '''127''': 1-70. Full article: [http://www.flmnh.ufl.edu/mcguire/allyn_pdfs/AME127.pdf]{{Wayback|url=http://www.flmnh.ufl.edu/mcguire/allyn_pdfs/AME127.pdf |date=20120126184930 }}.
* {{aut|Warren, A. D}}., {{aut|Ogawa, J. R.}} & {{aut|Brower, A. V. Z.}} 2008. Phylogenetic relationships of subfamilies and circumscription of tribes in the family Hesperiidae (Lepidoptera: Hesperiodea). Cladistics 24, 642-676.
* {{aut|Warren, A. D.}}, {{aut|Ogawa, J. R.}} & {{aut|Brower, A. V. Z.}} 2009. Revised classification of the family Hesperiidae (Lepidoptera: Hesperioidea) based on combined molecular and morphological data. Systematic Entomology 34, 467-523.

{{Commons category|Carcharodini}}
{{Taxonbar}}

[[Category:卡弄蝶族|*]]
[[Category:花弄蝶亞科|K]]
[[Category:1940年描述的分类群|K]]