{{About|激戰系列的第二部作品|第一部作品的資訊|激战 (游戏)}}
{{Expand language|en|time=2022-02-16T13:48:51+00:00}}
{{noteTA
| G1=Games
}}

{{Infobox VG
| title      = 激战2
| original   = Guild Wars 2
| image      =
| caption    = 《激战2》的游戏封面
| english    =
| developer  = [[ArenaNet|ArenaNet]]
| publisher  = {{Vgr|WW|[[NCsoft|NCsoft]]{{To}}[[ArenaNet|ArenaNet]]|CN|[[空中网|空中网]]}}
| series     = 激戰系列
| engine     =
| released   = {{Vgr|WW|2012年8月28日|CN|2014年5月13日}}
| genre      = [[MMORPG|MMORPG]]
| modes      = [[多人游戏|多人游戏]]
| platforms  = [[Microsoft_Windows|Microsoft Windows]]
| onlinegame = 1
| director   = Mike O'Brien<br>Colin Johanson<br>John Taylor
| producer   = 
| designer   = Colin Johanson<br>Eric Flannum
| writer     = 
| programmer = James Boer
| artist     = Daniel Dociu<br>Kekai Kotaki
| composer   = 
}}

{{vgname|激战2|en=Guild Wars 2}}是由[[ArenaNet|ArenaNet]]研发、[[NCsoft|NCsoft]]發行的一款[[奇幻作品|奇幻]][[MMORPG|MMORPG]]游戏。

{{TransH}}
Set in the [[fantasy|fantasy]] world of Tyria, the game follows the re-emergence of Destiny's Edge, a disbanded guild dedicated to fighting the Elder Dragons, a [[Lovecraftian_horror|Lovecraftian]] species that has seized control of Tyria in the time since the original ''[[Guild_Wars|Guild Wars]]''. The game takes place in a [[persistent_world|persistent world]] with a story that progresses in [[Instance_dungeon|instanced]] environments.{{R|zam09}}

''Guild Wars 2'' claims to be unique in the genre<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.guildwars2.com/en/news/guild-wars-2-design-manifesto/ |title=Guild Wars 2 Design Manifesto |website=GuildWars2.com |date=2010-04-27 |author=Mike O'Brien |access-date=2015-01-15}}</ref> by featuring a storyline that is responsive to player actions,<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.guildwars2.com/en/the-game/personal-story/ |title=Personal Story |website=GuildWars2.com |access-date=2015-01-15}}</ref> something which is common in single player [[role-playing_game|role-playing game]]s but rarely seen in multiplayer ones. A dynamic event system replaces traditional [[Quest_(video_gaming)|questing]],<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.guildwars2.com/en/the-game/dynamic-events/ |title=Dynamic Events |website=GuildWars2.com |access-date=2015-01-15}}</ref> utilising the [[ripple_effect|ripple effect]] to allow players to approach quests in different ways as part of a persistent world. Also of note is the combat system, which aims to be more dynamic than its predecessor by promoting synergy between professions and using the environment as a weapon,<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.guildwars2.com/en/the-game/combat/ |title=Combat |website=GuildWars2.com |access-date=2013-03-31}}</ref>{{R|pcgames_de}} as well as reducing the complexity of the ''[[Magic:_The_Gathering|Magic]]''-style skill system of the original game.
{{TransF}}

作為激戰的續作，激戰2同樣不使用其他同類型遊戲常見的[[訂閱|訂閱制]]，不過在2015年8月之前仍須要先購買遊戲本體才能安裝。在遊戲發售後的首兩週就已售出超過200萬份<ref>{{cite web |title=Guild Wars 2 sales now over 2 million units worldwide |url=https://www.videogamer.com/news/guild-wars-2-sales-now-over-2-million-units-worldwide/ |website=VideoGamer |accessdate=2022-02-16 |date=2012-09-13}}</ref>。2013年8月時最多有超過46萬人同時上線{{R|vg247_2013}}。2015年8月，遊戲已售出超過500萬份，此時ArenaNet宣布遊戲本體可以免費遊玩<ref>{{cite web |last1=Purchese |first1=Robert |title=ArenaNet explains Guild Wars 2 going free, and the addition of raids |url=https://www.eurogamer.net/articles/2015-08-27-arenanet-explains-guild-wars-2-going-free-and-the-addition-of-raids |website=Eurogamer |accessdate=2022-02-16 |language=en |date=2015-08-29}}</ref>。2021年8月，所有玩家創建的帳號數量超過1600萬<ref>{{cite web |title=Celebrating Nine Years of Guild Wars 2 |url=https://www.guildwars2.com/en/news/celebrating-nine-years-of-guild-wars-2/ |website=Guild Wars 2 Site |accessdate=2022-02-16}}</ref>。

== 劇情 ==
=== 設定 ===
{{TransH}}
''Guild Wars 2'' takes place in the [[high_fantasy|high fantasy]] world of Tyria, 250 years after the players' defeat of the Great Destroyer in the ''Eye of the North'' expansion. Five so-called Elder Dragons sleeping beneath the continent have awoken in the time since ''Guild Wars'', causing widespread destruction to Tyria and corrupting its inhabitants. The once dominant humans of Tyria are in decline, supplanted from most of their land by natural disasters and war with the Charr,<ref>{{cite web|url=https://wiki.guildwars2.com/wiki/The_Ecology_of_the_Charr |title=The Ecology of the Charr |website=Guild Wars 2 Wiki |date=2012-06-04 |access-date=2013-03-31}}</ref> who have finally reclaimed the last vestiges of their ancestral homeland of Ascalon from the humans. To the north, the Norn, a proud race of [[Nordic_race|Nordic]] hunters, have been forced south by the rise of Jormag, the elder dragon of ice. In the west, the technologically advanced Asura have been forced to establish permanent homes above-ground after the minions of the first dragon to awaken, Primordus, took control of the Depths of Tyria. Near the forests where the Asura make their home are the Sylvari, a new race who have appeared in Tyria in the last 25 years, unaffected by the difficulties that plague the other races but with some as yet unexplained connection to the Elder Dragons.

To the south, the continent of Cantha has been cut off by an isolationist and xenophobic political climate, which is reinforced by Zhaitan's undead navy. The continent of Elona, too, has been cut off; the only hint of its continued prosperity being the ongoing battle between the lich Palawa Joko's Mordant Crescent and Kralkatorrik, the crystal dragon in the Crystal Desert, as well as occasional reports from Order of Whispers (a secretive organization) spies. The Battle Isles have been wiped off the map entirely by the tidal wave caused by the re-emergence of the fallen kingdom of Orr, which came with the awakening of Zhaitan.

The advancement of time from ''Guild Wars'' is reflected in the changes in culture, including armor and clothing, as well as in the advancement of in-game technology and a unified common language.{{R|massively09}}<ref>{{cite web |url=https://wiki.guildwars2.com/wiki/The_Movement_of_the_World |title=The Movement of the World |website=Guild Wars 2 Wiki }}</ref> 
{{TransF}}{{Clear}}

=== 故事 ===
{{TransH}}
The player is tasked with reuniting the members of the disbanded ''Destiny's Edge'', a multi-racial adventuring guild whose members' struggles and eventual reunion serve as a microcosmic metaphor for the larger-scale unification of the playable races, whose combined strength is needed to effectively combat Zhaitan, the undead Elder Dragon.{{R|eurogamer09}}

After the defeat of the Elder Dragon Zhaitan in the game's "Personal Story", Season 1 of the "Living World" began. This story followed the player character joining a new group of characters to battle the enigmatic and insane Sylvari, Scarlet Briar, as she created strange enemy groups such as the Molten Alliance (a team-up between evil Charr and mole-like Dredge), the Toxic Alliance (a combination of lizard-like Krait and a spliter group from the Nightmare Court, a group of evil Sylvari), and the Aetherblades, steampunk [[sky_pirates|sky pirates]]. As the player and their new group of heroes, made up of characters from each race, battle Scarlet, they also learn about her past and investigate what she could be searching for. The season culminated with Scarlet attacking the city of Lion's Arch, landing a giant drill known as The Breachmaker in the center of the City. The player and their fellow heroes fought back, and killed Scarlet, but not before Lion's Arch was left in ruins and the Breachmaker pierces a Ley Line, awakening a previously unknown jungle Elder Dragon, Mordremoth.

Season 2 of the "Living World" picked up where Season 1 left off, sending the player towards the Maguuma Wastes to battle Mordremoth with the help of their fellow heroes and Destiny's Edge. The season began with the crashing of the Zephyrite Sanctum, a group of airships populated by followers of the now-dead dragon, Glint, who had escaped from the control of the Elder Dragons and had tried to help Destiny's Edge kill one of the Elder Dragons before the events of the game. The player and their allies followed Scarlet Briar's path into Dry Top, a region to the west, and learned about the Elder Dragons. The player also learned of an egg laid by Glint before her death and went in search of it. Later, all of the races united against Mordemoth, and the Pact prepare once again to battle an Elder Dragon. However, while the player hunted down Glint's Egg and learned many secrets from the past, the Pact fleet was destroyed over the jungle by a devastating attack by Mordremoth.

The story continues to be developed through the expansions and further seasons of the Living World.
{{TransF}}

== 開發 ==
{{TransH}}
The decision to start creating ''Guild Wars 2'' began in a design meeting for ''Guild Wars Utopia'', back when the company was releasing campaigns on a sixth-month development cycle. The team realised that they would not be able to do everything they wanted within the constraints of the scope that they had previously defined for campaigns and the limited amount of time available to them, and at the behest of Jeff Strain, found themselves discussing how the continued addition of features and content in stand-alone campaigns was leading to more bloated tutorials and difficulty in balancing the ever-increasing number of skills. Eventually, the discussion evolved into a blueprint for an entirely new game.
{{TransF}}

激戰2的開發始於2007年{{R|tth07}}。2007年3月27日，激戰的一位開發者提到了激戰最後一個[[資料片|擴展包]]的相關資訊，該擴展包會在遊玩與故事方面作為和激戰2連接的橋樑{{R|announce|zam_evolution}}。開發團隊決定不進行早期[[软件测试#封测与公测|封測或公測]]，ArenaNet認為玩家進行MMORPG公測時的期望已不同以往，現在更像是在試玩一個接近完成的遊戲，而非真的在測試遊戲。因此取消了預計在2008年的遊戲測試，確保激戰2面世時能對玩家有最大的震撼與吸引力{{R|pcgamer07|faq}}。

2009年8月，在消息發布的兩年後，ArenaNet決定公開更多有關遊戲的資訊{{R|mob09}}。隨後於[[Gamescom|Gamescom]]發表一部結合了動畫[[概念藝術|概念藝術]]與遊戲畫面的[[預告片|預告片]]，之後在訪談上說明了一些遊戲世界內的傳說，以及玩家可選擇種族的資訊。

2009年11月，[[NCsoft|NCsoft]]副社長李在浩表示遊戲很有可能不會在2011年之前發布，但會在2010年進行封測<ref>{{cite web|url=http://dailygamesnews.com/2009/11/guild-wars-2-wont-release-until-2011.html |title=Guild Wars 2 Won't Release Until 2011, BETA In 2010 |publisher=Dailygamesnews.com |date=2009-11-10 |access-date=2011-06-06}}</ref>。

2010年，ArenaNet先後在Gamescom 2010（8月19日－8月22日）、[[PAX遊戲展|PAX遊戲展]]（9月3日－9月5日）、[[巴黎遊戲周|巴黎遊戲周]]（10月27日－11月1日）提供了體驗版的遊戲{{r|arena_gamescom|pgw10}}。該遊戲適用於[[Microsoft_Windows|Microsoft Windows]]系統，其中也在確認將遊戲[[電子遊戲移植|移植]]到[[電子遊戲機|遊戲機]]的可能性。<ref>{{cite web|url=http://news.mmosite.com/content/2010-02-08/blade_and_soul_closed_beta_in_the_first_half_of_2010,2.shtml|title=Blade & Soul: CBT in the First Half of 2010 - MMORPG News | website= MMOSite.com | date = 2010-02-08 | dead-url = yes | archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20130203125757/http://news.mmosite.com/content/2010-02-08/blade_and_soul_closed_beta_in_the_first_half_of_2010,2.shtml|archive-date=2013-02-03}}</ref>

2011年，ArenaNet分別進行了封閉Alpha與Beta測試{{R|faq2}}。2012年1月23日宣布了激戰2將會在今年發布。同年2月，部分被邀請的媒體參與了測試。同年3月和4月，ArenaNet擴大了測試規模，所以預先購買了遊戲的玩家都可以參與測試<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.arena.net/blog/dragon |title=Welcome to the Year of the Dragon |publisher=Arena.net |date=2012-01-23 |access-date=2012-02-07 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120207221054/http://www.arena.net/blog/dragon |archive-date=February 7, 2012 }}</ref>。2012年2月28日，ArenaNet宣布激戰2會在8月28日發布，而有預先購買遊戲的玩家可以提前於8月25日遊玩。<ref name="Announcing the Guild Wars 2 Launch Date">{{cite web|url=http://www.arena.net/blog/announcing-the-guild-wars-2-launch-date |title=Announcing the Guild Wars 2 Launch Date |access-date=29 June 2012 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120701003444/http://www.arena.net/blog/announcing-the-guild-wars-2-launch-date |archive-date=July 1, 2012 }}</ref>

2012年9月18日發表了適用於Mac OS X的測試版[[用戶端|用戶端]]<ref name="Announcing Guild Wars 2 for Mac">{{cite web |url=http://www.guildwars2.com/en/news/announcing-guild-wars-2-for-mac-beta |title=Announcing Guild Wars 2 for Mac |access-date=18 September 2012}}</ref>。2021年，由於Mac OS不再支援[[OpenGL|OpenGL]][[彩現|彩現]]，激戰2 Mac OS版本的開發因此終止<ref>{{cite web |url=https://en-forum.guildwars2.com/topic/89730-an-update-on-mac-support-for-guild-wars-2/ |title=An update on Mac support for Guild Wars 2 |access-date=13 October 2021}}</ref>。

2015年，ArenaNet從NCsoft接管了營運權<ref>{{cite web |url=https://massivelyop.com/2015/09/01/pax-prime-2015-president-mike-obrien-addresses-rumors-about-business-model-and-the-arenanet-base-on-the-moon/ |title=PAX Prime 2015: Guild Wars 2's free-to-play model and publishing takeover |last=Everett |first=Larry |work=Massively Overpowered |publisher=Overpowered Media Group |date=1 September 2015 |access-date=10 June 2020 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150902084045/https://massivelyop.com/2015/09/01/pax-prime-2015-president-mike-obrien-addresses-rumors-about-business-model-and-the-arenanet-base-on-the-moon/ |archive-date=2 September 2015 |url-status=live }}</ref>。{{Clear}}

=== 發布後 ===
激戰2原本預計每兩周發布一個更新，後改為每幾個月發布一次較大的更新，其中加入一些較小的[[補丁|補丁]]或[[bug|錯誤]]修復{{R|content_schedule}}。
{| class="wikitable" style="float:right;"
|-
! 更新類型 !! 標題 !! 發布日期
|-
| 遊戲本體 || '''激戰2''' || 2012年8月 
|-
| 動態世界{{efn|name=living_world}} || 第一季 || 2013年1月－2014年3月
|-
| 動態世界{{efn|name=living_world}} || 第二季 || 2014年7月－2015年1月
|-
| 擴展包 || '''Heart of Thorns''' || 2015年10月
|-
| 動態世界{{efn|name=living_world}} || 第三季 || 2016年7月－2017年7月
|-
| 擴展包 || '''Path of Fire''' || 2017年9月  
|-
| 動態世界{{efn|name=living_world}} || 第四季 || 2017年11月－2019年5月
|-
| 動態世界{{efn|name=living_world}} || '''The Icebrood Saga''' || 2019年9月－2021年4月
|-
| 擴展包 || '''End of Dragons''' || 2022年2月28日
|-
|colspan="3" |
{{notelist|1=
{{efn |name=living_world |1=原文為'''Living World'''}}
}}
|}
{{Clear}}

== 注釋 ==
{{notelist}}

== 參考資料 ==
{{reflist |colwidth=30em |refs=

<ref name="announce">{{cite web |author=ArenaNet |title=Guild Wars 2, Guild Wars Expansion Announced |work=Guild Wars website |publisher=NCSoft |date=March 27, 2007 |url=http://www.guildwars.com/events/press/releases/pressrelease-2007-03-27.php |access-date=2009-10-03}}</ref>

<ref name="arena_gamescom">{{cite web|author=ArenaNet |title=Demo Tales from Gamescom |work=Guild Wars website |publisher=NCSoft |date=August 22, 2010 |url=http://www.arena.net/blog/demo-tales-from-gamescom |access-date=2010-08-23 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20100824002241/http://www.arena.net/blog/demo-tales-from-gamescom |archive-date=August 24, 2010 }}</ref>

<ref name="content_schedule">{{cite web |url=http://massively.joystiq.com/2013/06/25/arenanet-aiming-for-new-guild-wars-2-content-every-two-weeks/ |title=ArenaNet aims for new Guild Wars content every two weeks |access-date=30 June 2013 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190513091223/http://massively.joystiq.com/2013/06/25/arenanet-aiming-for-new-guild-wars-2-content-every-two-weeks/ |archive-date=13 May 2019 |url-status=dead }}</ref>

<ref name="eurogamer09">{{cite web |first=Keza |last=MacDonald |title=Guild Wars 2 |work=[[Eurogamer|Eurogamer]] |date=20 August 2009 |url=http://www.eurogamer.net/articles/guild-wars-2-preview_4 |access-date=2009-10-03}}</ref>

<ref name="faq">{{cite web|author=ArenaNet |title=FAQ |work=Guild Wars 2 website |publisher=NCSoft |date=August 2009 |url=http://www.guildwars2.com/en/faq/ |access-date=2009-10-03 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110711132844/http://www.guildwars2.com/en/faq/ |archive-date=July 11, 2011 }}</ref>

<ref name="faq2">{{cite web|title=FAQ Beta Announcement |date=February 2011 |url=http://www.guildwars2.com/en/the-game/game-faq/#two |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110502195611/http://www.guildwars2.com/en/the-game/game-faq/ |archive-date=May 2, 2011 }}</ref>

<ref name="massively09">{{cite web |first=Shawn |last=Schuster |title=Massively's interview with ArenaNet: Let's talk Guild Wars 2 |work=Massively |date=September 17, 2009 |url=http://massively.joystiq.com/2009/09/17/massivelys-interview-with-arenanet-lets-talk-guild-wars-2/ |access-date=2009-10-03 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190513091222/http://massively.joystiq.com/2009/09/17/massivelys-interview-with-arenanet-lets-talk-guild-wars-2/ |archive-date=May 13, 2019 |url-status=dead }}</ref>

<ref name="mob09">{{cite web |first=Mike |last=O'Brien |title=Exciting week |work=Guild Wars Wiki |date=17 August 2009 |url=http://wiki.guildwars.com/index.php?title=User_talk:Mike_O%27Brien&diff=prev&oldid=1638001 |access-date=2009-10-03}}</ref>

<ref name="pcgames_de">{{cite web |title=Guild Wars 2: Der Status Quo - 10 Fakten auf einen Blick + Interview! |work=PC Games |date=2008-07-07 |url=http://www.pcgames.de/Guild-Wars-2-PC-169660/ |language=de |access-date=2009-10-03}}</ref>

<ref name="pcgamer07">{{Cite journal |author=Salvatore, Kristen |title=Guild Wars Reborn |date=May 1, 2007 |journal=[[PC_Gamer|PC Gamer]] |issue=161 |pages=22–38 |issn=1080-4471 |oclc=31776112}}</ref>

<ref name="pgw10">{{cite web|url=http://www.arena.net/blog/stephane-lo-presti-reports-from-paris-games-week |title=Stéphane Lo Presti Reports From Paris Games Week |publisher=Arena.net |date=2010-10-28 |access-date=2011-06-06 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110604124214/http://www.arena.net/blog/stephane-lo-presti-reports-from-paris-games-week |archive-date=June 4, 2011 }}</ref>

<ref name="tth07">{{cite web |title=Guild Wars Co-Creator Jeff Strain Interviewed at Leipzig GC '07 |work=Ten Ton Hammer |date=August 25, 2007 |url=http://www.tentonhammer.com/node/10909 |access-date=2009-10-03}}</ref>

<ref name="vg247_2013">{{cite web |title=Guild Wars 2 turns one, has shifted 3.5 million copies |url=https://www.vg247.com/guild-wars-2-turns-one-has-shifted-3-5-million-copies |website=VG247 |accessdate=2022-02-16 |language=en |date=2013-08-28}}</ref>

<ref name="zam_evolution">{{cite web |title=Guild Wars Evolution: An Interview With ArenaNet |work=ZAM |date=September 2009 |url=http://www.zam.com/story.html?story=19763 |access-date=2009-10-03}}</ref>

<ref name="zam09">{{cite web |title=Important Guild Wars 2 Questions Answered |work=ZAM |date=September 2009 |url=http://www.zam.com/story.html?story=19860 |access-date=2009-10-03 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20091001154757/http://www.zam.com/story.html?story=19860 |archive-date=2009-10-01 |url-status=dead }}</ref>

}}
== 外部链接 ==

* {{Official websites|http://www.guildwars2.com/|全球|http://gw2.kongzhong.com/|中国大陆}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Guild Wars 2}}
[[Category:2012年电子游戏|Category:2012年电子游戏]]
[[Category:大型多人在线角色扮演游戏|Category:大型多人在线角色扮演游戏]]
[[Category:NCsoft游戏|Category:NCsoft游戏]]
[[Category:Windows游戏|Category:Windows游戏]]
[[Category:后传电子游戏|Category:后传电子游戏]]
[[Category:LGBT相关电子游戏|Category:LGBT相关电子游戏]]
[[Category:美国开发电子游戏|Category:美国开发电子游戏]]
[[Category:官方簡體中文化遊戲|Category:官方簡體中文化遊戲]]