{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Hamadryas
| authority = Hübner, 1806
| image = ComputerHotline - Lepidoptera sp. (by) (29).jpg
| image_caption = [[蛤蟆蛺蝶|蛤蟆蛺蝶]] <br />''Hamadryas amphinome''
| type_species = [[蛤蟆蛺蝶|蛤蟆蛺蝶]]<br />''Papilio amphinome''
| type_species_authority = Linnaeus, 1767
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共20種，詳見正文。
| synonyms =
* ''Apatura'' <small>[Illiger], 1807</small>
* ''Ageronia'' <small>Hübner, [1819]</small>
* ''Philocala'' <small>Billberg 1820</small>
* ''Peridromia'' <small>Lacordaire, 1833</small>
* ''Peridromia'' <small>Boisduval, [1836]</small>
* ''Amphichlora'' <small>Felder, 1861</small>
}}

'''蛤蟆蛺蝶屬'''（'''Cracker'''，學名：''Hamadryas''）是[[蛺蝶科|蛺蝶科]][[苾蛺蝶亞科|苾蛺蝶亞科]][[蛤蟆蛺蝶族|蛤蟆蛺蝶族]]中的一[[屬_(生物)|屬]]。物種分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]，愛在樹幹上停留。一些物種的雄蝶飛行會發出「咔」的聲音<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2008. Hamadryas Hübner 1819. Polychroa Billberg 1820 currently viewed as a subjective junior synonym, 
Epicallia Erichson 1848 invalid junior homonym of Epicallia Hübner, 1820. Version 25 July 2008 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Hamadryas/70453/2008.07.25 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Hamadryas/70453/2008.07.25 |date=20170305055858 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* [[白斑蛤蟆蛺蝶|白斑蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. atlantis''
* [[白角蛤蟆蛺蝶|白角蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. albicornis''
* [[花斑蛤蟆蛺蝶|花斑蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. chloe''
* [[藍花蛤蟆蛺蝶|藍花蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. alicia''
* [[褐裙蛤蟆蛺蝶|褐裙蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. rosandra''
* [[熱帶蛤蟆蛺蝶|熱帶蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. februa''
* [[雙綠蛤蟆蛺蝶|雙綠蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. amphichloe''
* [[銀斑蛤蟆蛺蝶|銀斑蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. glauconome''
* [[細紋蛤蟆蛺蝶|細紋蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. julitta'' = ''H. honorina''
* [[雅斑蛤蟆蛺蝶|雅斑蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. iphthime''
* [[多斑蛤蟆蛺蝶|多斑蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. epinome''
* [[褐斑蛤蟆蛺蝶|褐斑蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''Hamadiyas guatemalena''
* [[菲蛤蟆蛺蝶|菲蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. feronia''
* [[黃裙蛤蟆蛺蝶|黃裙蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. fornax''
* [[豔婦蛤蟆蛺蝶|豔婦蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. belladonna''
* [[蛤蟆蛺蝶|蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. amphinome''
* [[蛞蝓蛤蟆蛺蝶|蛞蝓蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. arinome''
* [[天鵝絨蛤蟆蛺蝶|天鵝絨蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. velutina''
* [[麗蛤蟆蛺蝶|麗蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''Hamadiyas arete''
* [[藍點蛤蟆蛺蝶|藍點蛤蟆蛺蝶]] ''H. laodamia''
** ''H. l. laodamia'' = 藍蛤蟆蛺蝶 "H. arethusa''

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考文獻 ==
* {{Commonscat-inline|Hamadryas (Nymphalidae)}}
* Garzón-Orduña, I.J. 2012. Phylogenetic evidence for loss of sound production and a shift in sexual recognition signals in Hamadryas butterflies (Nymphalidae: Biblidinae). Systematic Entomology 37, 84-101.
* Jenkins, D.W. 1983. Neotropical Nymphalidae I. Revision of Hamadryas. Bull. Allyn Mus. 81, 1-146.
* Lamas G ed. 2004. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

== 延伸阅读==
* <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Monge-Nájera, J., F. Hernández, M.I. González, J. Soley, J.A. Pochet & S. Zolla.</span> (1998). ''Spatial distribution, territoriality and sound production by tropical cryptic butterflies (Hamadryas, Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae): implications for the "industrial melanism" debate''. Revista de Biología Tropical 46 (2): 297-330.

* <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Murillo-Hiller, L.R. </span> (2012). ''Phylogenetic analysis of the subtribe Ageroniina with special emphasis on the genus Hamadryas (Lepidoptera, Nymphalidae) with an identification key to the species of Hamadryas''. ISRN Zoology 1-17 [http://www.hindawi.com/isrn/zoology/2012/635096/]

* <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Garwood, K.M.; Lehman, Carter W. & Carter, G.</span> (2007). ''Butterflies of Southern Amazonia''. Neotropical Butterflies, Mission, Texas.

* <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Jenkins, D.W.</span> (1983): Neotropical Nymphalidae. I. Revision of ''Hamadryas''. ''Bulletin of the Allyn Museum'' '''81''': 1-146.

* <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Lamas, G. (ed.)</span> (2004): ''Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera'' (Checklist Part 4A. Hesperioidea-Papilionoidea). Association for Tropical Lepidoptera, Gainesville, Florida. <small>ISBN 094541728</small>

* <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Lockette, Tim</span> (2004): [https://web.archive.org/web/20060211023853/http://pestalert.ifas.ufl.edu/butterflies_talk.htm Butterflies can "talk"]. Version of 2004-JUL-21. Retrieved 2006-MAY-16.

* <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Yack, Jayne E.; Otero, L. Danier; Dawson, Jeff W.; Surlykke, Annemarie & Fullard,  James H.</span> (2000): Sound production and hearing in the blue cracker butterfly ''Hamadryas feronia'' (Lepidoptera, Nymphalidae) from Venezuela. ''[[Journal_of_Experimental_Biology|J. Exp. Biol.]]'' '''203'''(24): 3689–3702. [http://jeb.biologists.org/cgi/reprint/203/24/3689.pdf PDF fulltext]
* <span style="font-variant:small-caps"> Canals, Gustavo R.</span> (2003): ''Mariposas de Misiones'' Ediciones L.O.L.A., Argentina. <small>-</small>

{{苾蛺蝶亞科}}
{{Taxonbar}}
[[Category:蛤蟆蛺蝶屬|*]]
[[Category:蛤蟆蛺蝶族|H]]
[[Category:_1806年描述的分类群|H]]