'''法律语言'''（{{lang-en|'''legal writing'''}}）或稱法律文字。是指在書寫或闡述與法律相關的內容時所使用的語言。一般來說，法律文件的用語為求準確，都會對每一項事物有準確的定義。
內容近似[[文言文|文言文]]，但是以[[白話文|白話文]]書寫。如「應該」要以「應」為表示，稱「雙方」為「甲乙」方，稱「有嫌隙」為「素有恩怨」等。<ref>[行政院99年1月22日院臺秘字第0990091522號函頒文書處理手冊 法律統一用字表]</ref>法律語言與官僚語言（officialese）重合性很大，因其最廣義均涵蓋法規條文、行政文書、司法判決等面向。官僚語言如:「我們樂意幫你，但是你必須先回答以下問題。」進而從以下問題回推樂意之定義。

根據《[[牛津法律大辞典|牛津法律大辞典]]》，「法律語言」的定義指其注释义项涵盖了法律语言的产生、运用及法律语言的词语、文句等<ref>{{cite book |title=《牛津法律大辞典》|publisher = [[法律出版社|法律出版社]] |year = 2003 |pages = 第651–652页 }}</ref>。词条指出，法律语言最早是指英格兰和苏格兰的皇家判决、法律、诉讼程序、诉讼卷宗、特许状及法律书籍所使用的语种。关于“法律语言词语构成”的说明，与社团方言是一套符号系统的理论基本一致，词条指出“法律语言部分是由具有具体意义的单词组成，这些单词在日常用语中即使有，但也很少使用，如侵权行为人；部分则是为具有专门法律含义的日常用语的单词组成，如预谋、过失、非法侵入；还有部分是日常用语组成。”“法律如果有大量的专门词汇，其则会更好，而不会更糟。”另外，该词条还指出“法律语言在国际环境中还会产生更多的问题，将一种语言的法律文本转为另一种语言的法律文本是极为困难的。”这已涉及到法律翻译的问题。从以上引述可以看出，“法律语言”这一术语的确立源远流长，作为社团方言的法律语言随社会的发展而发展，随历史的演进而变革。

给任何事物定义，均在于揭示其本质特征与本质属性，以便确定研究对象与研究范畴，这是确保研究工作有序、有效、正确的必须。基于“法律语言生成理论”的阐释，法律语言可以定义为：为适应法律范畴特殊交际的需要，从全民共同语中分化出来的“社团变体”。换言之，法律语言是以全民共同语言为基础，在立法、司法与执法的全过程中逐渐形成的，具有法学专业特色的一种社团方言。<ref>{{cite book |author=孙懿华 |title=《法律语言学》 |publisher=湖南人民出版社 |year=2006 |page = 第6页 }}</ref>

==註釋==
{{Reflist|30em}}

== 参考文献 ==
{{refbegin|2}}
* ''[http://www.cambridge.org/elt/legalenglish/ International Legal English] {{Wayback|url=http://www.cambridge.org/elt/legalenglish/ |date=20190710020345 }}'', written by Amy Krois-Lindner and TransLegal, is a coursebook for Cambridge ESOL’s International Legal English Certificate.
* Bryan Garner’s ''Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage'' (Oxford University Press) is regarded as an authoritative guide to legal language, and is aimed at the practising lawyer.
* Peter Butt and Richard Castle’s ''Modern Legal Drafting'' is a reference book aimed at the practising lawyer.
* ''[http://www.forum-legal.com/docubase.htm#cavendish Legal English] {{Wayback|url=http://www.forum-legal.com/docubase.htm#cavendish |date=20021201115558 }}'' (2004) by [http://www.forum-legal.com/people.htm Rupert Haigh] {{Webarchive|url=https://archive.is/20071009140444/http://www.forum-legal.com/people.htm |date=2007-10-09 }} and published by Routledge.
* B.M.Gandhi's Legal language, legal writing & Gen. English {{ISBN|978-9351451228}}
* ''New ELS: English for Law Students'' written by Maria Fraddosio (Naples, Edizioni Giuridiche Simone, 2008) is a course book for Italian University Students.
* ''The Scribes Journal of Legal Writing'', created by [[Scribes:_The_American_Society_of_Legal_Writers|Scribes: The American Society of Legal Writers]].
* ''[http://www.forum-legal.com/docubase.htm# The Oxford Handbook of Legal Correspondence] {{Wayback|url=http://www.forum-legal.com/docubase.htm |date=20021201115558 }}'' (2006) by [http://www.forum-legal.com/people.htm Rupert Haigh] {{Webarchive|url=https://archive.is/20071009140444/http://www.forum-legal.com/people.htm |date=2007-10-09 }} and published by Oxford University Press.
* For a humorous perspective on legal writing, see Daniel R. White's '''''Still''' The Official Lawyer's Handbook'' (NY: Plume/Penguin 1991), Chapter 13, pp. 171-176, especially its notorious riff on how a lawyer might edit -- and torture -- the phrase "The sky is blue" (pp. 172-174). Similarly, see Professor Fred Rodell's "Goodbye to Law Reviews," whose opening lines contain the classic statement of the problem:  "There are two things wrong with almost all legal writing.  One is its style.  The other is its content."  (This and other articles are collected in ''Trials and Tribulations—An Anthology of Appealing Legal Humor'', edited by Daniel R. White (NY: Plume/Penguin 1991), p. 241.)
{{refend}}

==參閱==
*[[法律英語|法律英語]]

== 外部链接 ==
* [http://ssrn.com/abstract=1704045 Exercises for Legal Writers II: Wordiness]
* [http://ssrn.com/abstract=1715702 Exercises for Legal Writers I: Active and Passive Sentences and Writing with Verbs]

[[Category:法律语言|]]
[[Category:法学文献|Category:法学文献]]