{{Refimprove|time=2013-12-02}}
{{佛教}}
'''法华三部经'''，为[[漢傳佛教|漢傳佛教]]中，對《[[无量义经|无量义经]]》、《[[妙法莲华经|妙法莲华经]]》、《[[观普贤菩萨行法经|观普贤菩萨行法经]]》三部[[佛经|佛教经典]]的合称。

== 概論 ==
漢傳佛教認為，[[法華宗|法華宗]]的開經為《無量義經》，主要部份為《妙法蓮華經》，結尾為《觀普賢菩薩行法經》。將此三部經合為一部，稱為法華經十卷本，又稱'''法華三經'''。<ref>{{Cite book|last1=Katō |first1=Bunnō |first2=Yoshirō |last2=Tamura |first3=Kōjirō |last3=Miyasaka |title=''The Threefold Lotus Sutra: The Sutra of Innumerable Meanings, The Sutra of the Lotus Flower of the Wonderful Law, The Sutra of Meditation on the Bodhisattva Universal Virtue'' |location=Tōkyō |publisher=Kōsei Publishing Company |year=1993 |pages=x, xiii |url=http://www.rk-world.org/publications/ThreefoldLotusSutra.pdf |format=PDF |month= |isbn=4-333-00208-7 |deadurl=bot: unknown |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20131019124924/http://www.rk-world.org/publications/ThreefoldLotusSutra.pdf |archivedate=2013-10-19 }} </ref>

《无量义经》系[[南齐|南齐]][[昙摩伽陀耶舍|昙摩伽陀耶舍]]译。此经主旨，在阐述实相之法。因法华经序品所言之“為諸[[菩薩|菩薩]]說[[大乘|大乘]]經，名無量義，教菩薩法”，古大德如[[智顗|智顗]]、[[慧基|慧基]]等以此经为法华经的开经。其次《妙法莲华经》是三者中的主经，流布最广的是[[鸠摩罗什|鸠摩罗什]]译本。《观普贤菩萨行法经》则为[[刘宋|刘宋]][[曇摩蜜多|曇摩蜜多]]译。本经承续《法华经》终章《[[普贤菩萨劝发品|普贤菩萨劝发品]]》，阐述观[[普贤菩萨|普贤菩萨]]的法门、功德，被认为是《法华经》的结经<ref>{{Cite book|author=Gene Reeves | title=''The Lotus Sutra: A Contemporary Translation of a Buddhist Classic''| url=http://books.google.com/books?id=DEzGGMAOYHcC&pg=PT10| date=14 April 2014|publisher=Simon and Schuster|isbn=978-0-86171-987-7|pages=10–11}}</ref>。

==參考資料==
{{Reflist}}

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
* {{Cite book | last1 = Katō | first1 = Bunnō | first2 = Yoshirō | last2 = Tamura | first3 = Kōjirō | last3 = Miyasaka | title = The Threefold Lotus Sutra: The Sutra of Innumerable Meanings, The Sutra of the Lotus Flower of the Wonderful Law, The Sutra of Meditation on the Bodhisattva Universal Virtue | location = Tōkyō | publisher = Kōsei Publishing Company | year = 1993 | url = http://www.rk-world.org/publications/ThreefoldLotusSutra.pdf | isbn = 4-333-00208-7 | archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20131019124924/http://www.rk-world.org/publications/ThreefoldLotusSutra.pdf | archive-date = 2013-10-19 }} 
* {{Cite book | last = Reeves | first = Gene | title = The Lotus Sutra: A Contemporary Translation of a Buddhist Classic | publisher = Wisdom Publications | date = 2008 | location = [[Somerville,_Massachusetts|Somerville]] | isbn = 978-0-86171-571-8}}
* Suguro, Shinjo; Nichiren Buddhist International Center, trans. (1998). ''Introduction to the Lotus Sutra'', Fremont, Calif.: Jain Publishing Company. {{ISBN|0875730787}}; p. 4
* Tsugunari Kubo, Joseph Logan (transl.), Tiantai Lotus Texts, Berkeley, Numata Center for Buddhist Translation and Research, 2013. {{ISBN|978-1-886439-45-0}} (''Infinite Meanings Sutra'', ''Sutra of Meditation on the Bodhisattva Universal Virtue'')
* [[Burton_Watson|Watson, Burton]] (tr.). [http://www.nichirenlibrary.org/en/lsoc/toc/ ''The Lotus Sutra and Its Opening and Closing Chapters''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.nichirenlibrary.org/en/lsoc/toc/ |date=20141025145841 }}. Tokyo: Soka Gakkai 2009. {{ISBN|978-4-412-01409-1}}
{{refend}}

{{China-buddhism-book-fahua}}

[[Category:法華部|Category:法華部]]
[[Category:佛教名數3|Category:佛教名數3]]