{{noteTA|G1=Football|G2=EPL|G3=FAcup
|T=zh-hans:弗兰克·克拉克; zh-hk:法蘭·奇勒;
|1=zh-hans:弗兰克; zh-hk:法蘭;
|2=zh-hans:克拉克; zh-hk:奇勒;
}}
{{Infobox football biography
| playername     = 法蘭·奇勒<br />''Frank Clark''
| image          = 
| fullname       = Frank Clark
| dateofbirth    = {{birth date|1943|9|9|df=y}}
| cityofbirth    = [[泰恩-威爾郡|泰恩-威爾郡]][[Rowlands_Gill|罗兰兹吉尔]] 
| countryofbirth = [[英格蘭|英格蘭]]
| dateofdeath    = 
| height         = 
| currentclub    = 
| clubnumber     =
| position       = [[後衛_(足球)#边後衛|邊後衞]]
| youthyears1    = 
| youthyears2    = 
| years1         = 1962–1975     |clubs1 = [[纽卡斯尔联足球俱乐部|紐卡素]]    |caps1 = 389 |goals1 = 0
| years2         = 1975–1979     |clubs2 = [[诺丁汉森林足球俱乐部|諾定咸森林]] |caps2 = 117 |goals2 = 1
| manageryears1  = 1982–1991     | managerclubs1  = [[莱顿东方足球俱乐部|奧連特]]
| manageryears2  = 1993–1996     | managerclubs2  = [[诺丁汉森林足球俱乐部|諾定咸森林]]
| manageryears3  = 1996–1998     | managerclubs3  = [[曼彻斯特城足球俱乐部|曼城]]
| pcupdate       = 2011年11月12日 (六) 12:57 (UTC)
| ntupdate       =
}} 
'''法蘭·奇勒'''（{{lang-en|'''Frank Clark'''}}，{{bd|1943年|9月9日|catidx=Clark, Frank}}）是一名前[[英格蘭|英格蘭]][[足球|足球]][[運動員|運動員]]及[[教練|領隊]]，曾任[[英冠|英冠]]球會[[诺丁汉森林足球俱乐部|諾定咸森林]]的[[主席|主席]]<ref name="Frank Clark">{{cite news |language=en |url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15283892.stm |title=Frank Clark appointed Notitngham Forest chairman |publisher=''[[BBC_Sport|BBC Sport]]'' |date=2011-10-12 |accessdate=2011-11-12 |archive-date=2011-10-13 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20111013103722/http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15283892.stm |dead-url=no }}</ref>，亦是[[英格蘭足球聯賽領隊協會|英格蘭足球聯賽領隊協會]]的副主席。
<!--
==生平==
===球員===
He was born in [[Consett|Consett]], [[County_Durham|County Durham]]. He started at [[Crook_Town_A.F.C.|Crook Town]], playing as a [[defender_(football)|full-back]].  He started his professional career at [[Newcastle_United_F.C.|Newcastle United]], and played a total of 464 games for them between 1962 and 1975.<ref>{{cite news|title=Dream Teams: Newcastle|url=http://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/news-and-comment/dream-teams-newcastle-1687582.html?action=Popup&ino=4|publisher=The Independent|accessdate=11 September 2010}}</ref> He then joined [[Nottingham_Forest_F.C.|Nottingham Forest]], where he was part of Forest's 1978 [[Football_League_First_Division|Championship]]-winning squad, and he played for them in the [[1979_European_Cup_Final|1979 European Cup Final]], where they beat [[Malmo_FF|Malmo FF]].<ref>{{cite web|title=The European Cup Team 1979|url=http://www.nottinghamforest.co.uk/page/History/0,,10308~491646,00.html|publisher=Nottingham Forest Official Site|accessdate=11 September 2010}}</ref> 

===領隊===
After his playing career he became manager of [[Leyton_Orient_F.C.|Leyton Orient]], later becoming Managing Director of the [[Brisbane_Road|Brisbane Road]] club. In 1993 he was appointed as Nottingham Forest manager, as a replacement for the retiring [[Brian_Clough|Brian Clough]].<ref name=ureds/>

Forest had just been relegated to Division One when Clark took over, but he took them back to the [[Premier_League|Premiership]] after achieving automatic promotion in second place.  The club made an impressive top flight comeback by finishing third in the league and qualifying for the [[UEFA_Cup|UEFA Cup]]. 

He was also [[Premier_League_Manager_of_the_Month|Premier League Manager of the Month]] for September 1994, as Forest's fine start to the season saw them in the heat of a title challenge and hopes were high that Clark could take them to the rare distinction of top division title glory a season after promotion - just as his predecessor had done 17 years earlier.<ref>{{cite web|author= |url=http://www.nottinghamforest-mad.co.uk/footydb/loadgen.asp?Day=24&Month=Sep&ssnno=124&teamno=401 |title=FA Premiership League Table at 24 September 1994 |publisher=Nottinghamforest-mad.co.uk |date= |accessdate=2010-10-14}}</ref> The same accolade followed for Clark in October 1995, as Forest ended the month in fifth place and enjoying a good run in the UEFA Cup.<ref>{{cite web|author= |url=http://www.nottinghamforest-mad.co.uk/footydb/loadgen.asp?Day=28&Month=Oct&ssnno=125&teamno=401 |title=FA Premiership League Table at 28 October 1995 |publisher=Nottinghamforest-mad.co.uk |date= |accessdate=2010-10-14}}</ref>

Forest were the only English team to play [[Europe|Europe]]an football after [[Christmas|Christmas]] during 1995-96, as they reached the UEFA Cup quarter finals where they were eliminated by eventual winners [[FC_Bayern_Munich|Bayern Munich]]. Forest finished ninth in the league. 

In December 1996, with Forest struggling in the league, Clark expressed his concern with the boardroom crisis at the club, with rival parties attempting to buy the club. His earlier success with the club had led to him being linked to the [[England_national_football_team|England]] job.<ref>{{cite web|title=Clark's anxiety leads to City speculation: Football|url=http://www.independent.co.uk/sport/clarks-anxiety-leads-to-city-speculation-football-1314758.html|publisher=The Independent|accessdate=23 September 2011|date=16 November 1996}}</ref>

Clark made some shrewd signings as Forest manager, including [[Stan_Collymore|Stan Collymore]] and [[Lars_Bohinen|Lars Bohinen]]. Collymore was sold to [[Liverpool_F.C.|Liverpool]] in 1995 for a then British transfer fee record of £8.5M.<ref name=ureds>{{cite web|title=Frank Clark|url=http://www.u-reds.com/nffc/people/management/frankclark.asp|work=Profile|publisher=u-reds.com|accessdate=23 September 2011}}</ref>

Following his departure from Forest, Clark took over at [[Manchester_City_F.C.|Manchester City]], who were struggling in Division One after being relegated the previous season. Under his management, the club's form initially improved, and they secured a mid-table finish. City's following season started decently, with the side continuing to occupy mid-table for the first few months of the campaign; unfortunately the club hit a horrific run of form near the end of the year, and by February 1998 they had crashed to the bottom of the table. This resulted in Clark's dismissal on 17 February 1998 (he infamously learned of this on the radio while driving to a training session), and it ultimately proved to be his last job in club management.

===後領隊時期===
Clark took over from [[Nigel_Doughty|Nigel Doughty]] as chairman of Nottingham Forest football club on 12 October 2011 <ref name=nffc_chairman>{{cite web|title=Frank Clark appointed Nottingham Forest chairman|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/15283892.stm|work=Profile|publisher=bbc.co.uk|accessdate=12 October 2011}}</ref>
-->

==榮譽==
===球員===
;紐卡素
* [[英格蘭足球聯賽|英格蘭足球乙組聯賽（II）]]冠軍：1964/65年；
* [[英格蘭足總盃|英格蘭足總盃]]亞軍：1973/74年；

;諾定咸森林
* [[英格蘭足球聯賽|英格蘭足球甲組聯賽（I）]]冠軍：1977/78年；
* [[英格蘭聯賽盃|英格蘭聯賽盃]]冠軍：1977/78年、1978/79年；
* [[欧洲冠军联赛|歐洲冠軍球會盃]]冠軍：[[1978/79赛季欧洲冠军杯|1978/79年]]；

===領隊===
;奧連特
* [[英格蘭足球聯賽|英格蘭足球丁組聯賽（IV）]]附加賽冠軍：1988/89年；

;諾定咸森林
* [[英格蘭足球聯賽|英格蘭足球甲組聯賽（II）]]亞軍：1993/94年；
* [[英格兰足球超级联赛|英格兰足球超级联赛]]季軍：[[1994年至1995年英格蘭超級聯賽|1994/95年]]；

==參考資料==
{{Reflist}}

==外部連結==
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20111008163503/http://www.leaguemanagers.com/managers/profile-1165.html Frank Clark Profile] at LMA
*[http://www.soccerbase.com/managers2.sd?managerid=438 Frank Clark managerial statistics] {{Wayback|url=http://www.soccerbase.com/managers2.sd?managerid=438 |date=20070930231612 }} at soccerbase.com

{{諾定咸森林領隊}}
{{LMA年度最佳領隊}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Clark, Frank}}
[[Category:英格蘭足球運動員|Category:英格蘭足球運動員]]
[[Category:足球後衛|Category:足球後衛]]
[[Category:紐卡素球員|Category:紐卡素球員]]
[[Category:諾定咸森林球員|Category:諾定咸森林球員]]
[[Category:英格蘭足球聯賽球員|Category:英格蘭足球聯賽球員]]
[[Category:英格兰足球领队|Category:英格兰足球领队]]
[[Category:奧連特領隊|Category:奧連特領隊]]
[[Category:諾定咸森林領隊|Category:諾定咸森林領隊]]
[[Category:曼城領隊|Category:曼城領隊]]
[[Category:英格蘭足球聯賽領隊|Category:英格蘭足球聯賽領隊]]
[[Category:英超領隊|Category:英超領隊]]
[[Category:歐洲聯賽冠軍盃冠軍隊球員|Category:歐洲聯賽冠軍盃冠軍隊球員]]