{{unreferenced|time=2012-01-05T14:42:45+00:00}}
{{Infobox economist
| school_tradition = [[芝加哥經濟學派|芝加哥學派]]
| image       =
| image_size       =
| caption    =
|birth_name        = Frank Hyneman Knight
| birth_date       = {{Birth date|1885|11|7|df=y}}
| birth_place      = [[伊利諾伊州|伊利諾伊州]][[麥克萊恩縣_(伊利諾伊州)|麥克萊恩縣]]
| death_date       = {{Death date and age|1972|4|15|1885|11|7|df=y}}
| death_place      = [[伊利諾伊州|伊利諾伊州]][[芝加哥|芝加哥]]
| nationality      =
| institution      = [[康乃爾大學|康乃爾大學]]<br>[[芝加哥大學|芝加哥大學]]<br>[[艾奧瓦大學|艾奧瓦大學]]
| field            = 風險理論<br>[[利潤|利潤理論]]<br>[[價值理論|價值理論]]
| alma_mater       = [[密爾幹大學|密爾幹大學]]<br>[[田納西大學|田納西大學]]<br>[[康乃爾大學|康乃爾大學]]
| doctoral_advisor  = [[Allyn_A._Young|Allyn A. Young]]<br>[[Alvin_S._Johnson|Alvin S. Johnson]]
| academic_advisors = 
| doctoral_students = [[米爾頓·佛利民|米爾頓·佛利民]]<br>[[乔治·斯蒂格勒|乔治·斯蒂格勒]]<br>[[Charles_E._Lindblom|Charles E. Lindblom]]<br>[[詹姆斯·M·布坎南|詹姆斯·M·布坎南]]
| notable_students  = 
| influences       = [[Clarence_Edwin_Ayres|Clarence Edwin Ayres]]<br>[[John_Bates_Clark|John Bates Clark]]<br>[[Herbert_J._Davenport|Herbert J. Davenport]]
| influenced       = [[罗纳德·科斯|罗纳德·科斯]]<br>[[張五常|張五常]]<br>[[乔治·斯蒂格勒|乔治·斯蒂格勒]]<br>[[米爾頓·佛利民|米爾頓·佛利民]]<br>[[詹姆斯·M·布坎南|詹姆斯·M·布坎南]]<br>[[Charles_E._Lindblom|Charles E. Lindblom]]<br>[[大卫·洛克菲勒|大卫·洛克菲勒]]
| contributions    = [[奈特氏不確定性|奈特氏不確定性]]
| awards           = [http://www.aeaweb.org/honors_awards/walker_medal.php Francis A. Walker Medal] (1957)
| signature        = <!-- file name only -->
| repec_prefix =   | repec_id =
}}
'''法蘭克·海克曼·奈特'''（{{lang-en|Frank Hyneman Knight}}，{{bd|1885年|11月7日|1972年|4月15日|catIdx=Knight, Frank Hyneman}}），生於美國[[伊利諾州|伊利諾州]][[麦克莱恩县_(伊利诺伊州)|麥克萊恩縣]]，經濟學家，曾提出[[奈特氏不確定性|奈特氏不確定性]]。[[芝加哥大學|芝加哥大學]]教授，為[[芝加哥經濟學派|芝加哥學派]]的先驅與建立者之一。

==生平==
他在[[康乃爾大學|康乃爾大學]]取得經濟學博士學位。由博士論文，他發展出他的成名作《風險、不確定性與利潤》（Risk, Uncertainty, and Profit）。

取得學位後，他長期在芝加哥大學經濟系任教，被認為是[[芝加哥經濟學派|芝加哥經濟學派]]的壂基者之一。其學生中，包括[[米爾頓·佛利民|米爾頓·佛利民]]、[[喬治·斯蒂格勒|喬治·斯蒂格勒]]、[[詹姆斯·麥基爾·布坎南|詹姆斯·麥基爾·布坎南]]等人皆是諾貝爾獎得主。[[罗纳德·科斯|罗纳德·科斯]]雖然不是他的學生，但曾說過他的思想受到法蘭克·奈特作品的影響很大。

1950年，擔任[[美國經濟學會|美國經濟學會]]主席。

==著作==
* "The Concept of Normal Price in Value and Distribution", 1917, ''QJE''.
* "Cassel's Theoretische Sozialökonomie", 1921, ''JPE''.
* "Risk, Uncertainty, and Profit", 1921
* "Ethics and the Economic Interpretation", 1922, ''QJE'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* "The Ethics of Competition", 1923, ''QJE'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* "[https://books.google.com/books?id=FQ0zqzbhbMgC&pg=PA49 Business Management: Science or Art?] {{Wayback|url=https://books.google.com/books?id=FQ0zqzbhbMgC&pg=PA49 |date=20200801195044 }}", 1923 ''Journal of Business''.
* "Some Fallacies in the Interpretation of Social Cost", 1924, ''QJE'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* "The Limitations of Scientific Method in Economics", 1924, in Tugwell, editor, ''Trend of Economics'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* "Fact and Metaphysics in Economic Psychology", 1925, ''AER'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* "A Note on Professor Clark's Illustration of Marginal Productivity", 1925, ''JPE''.
* "Economic Psychology and the Value Problem", 1925, ''QJE''.
* "Economics at its Best: Review of Pigou", 1926, ''AER''.
* "Historical and Theoretical Issues in the Problem of Modern Capitalism", 1928, ''Journal of Econ & Business History'' (repr. in 1956 & 1999, I)
* "A Suggestion for Simplifying the Statement of the General Theory of Price", 1928, ''JPE''.
* "Freedom as Fact and Criterion", 1929, ''Int J of Ethics''
* "Statics and Dynamics: Some queries regarding the mechanical analogy in economics", 1930, ''ZfN'' (repr. in 1956 & 1999, I)
* "Professor Fisher's Interest Theory: A case in point", 1931, ''JPE''.
* "Modern Economic Society Further Considered", 1932, ''JPE''.
* "The Newer Economics and the Control of Economic Activity", 1932, ''JPE'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* ''The Economic Organization'', 1933.
* "Capitalistic Production, Time and the Rate of Return", 1933, in ''Essays in Honor of Gustav Cassel'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* "The Nature of Economic Science in Some Recent Discussion", 1934, ''AER''.
* "Social Science and the Political Trend", 1934, ''Univ of Toronto Quarterly''
* "Common-Sense of Political Economy: Wicksteed Reprinted", 1934, ''JPE'' (repr. in 1956)
* ''The Ethics of Competition and Other Essays'', 1935.
* "The Ricardian Theory of Production and Distribution", 1935, ''Canadian JE'' (repr. in 1956 & 1999, I)
* "A Comment on Machlup", 1935, ''JPE''.
* "Professor Hayek and the Theory of Investment", 1935, ''EJ''.
* "The Theory of Investment Once More: Mr. Boulding and the Austrians", 1935, ''QJE''.
* "Some Issues in the Economics of Stationary States", 1936, ''AER''.
* "The Place of Marginal Economics in a Collectivist System", 1936, ''AER''.
* "The Quantity of Capital and the Rate of Interest", 1936, ''JPE'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* "Pragmatism and Social Action: Review of Dewey", 1936, ''Int J of Ethics''
* "Note on Dr. Lange's Interest Theory", 1937, ''RES''.
* "Unemployment: and Mr. Keynes's revolution in economic theory", 1937, ''Canadian JE'' (repr. in 1999, I)
* "On the Theory of Capital: In reply to Mr. Kaldor", 1938, ''Econometrica''.
* "Bertrand Russell on Power", 1939, ''Ethics''.
* "The Ethics of Liberalism", 1939, ''Economica''.
* "Socialism: The Nature of the Problem", 1940, ''Ethics'' (repr. in 1999, II)
* "'What is Truth' in Economics", 1940, ''JPE'' (repr. in 1956 & 1999, I)
* "The Significance and Basic Postulates of Economics: a rejoinder", 1941, ''JPE''
* "Religion and Ethics in Modern Civilization", 1941, ''J of Liberal Religion''
* "The Meaning of Democracy: its politico-economic structure and ideals", 1941, ''J of Negro Education''
* "Social Science", 1941, ''Ethics'' (repr. in 1956)
* "The Business Cycle, Interest and Money: A methodological approach", 1941, ''REStat'' (repr. in 1956 & 1999, II)
* "Professor Mises and the Theory of Capital", 1941, ''Economica''.
* "The Role of the Individual in the Economic World of the Future", 1941, ''JPE''.
* [https://www.jstor.org/stable/1824430 "Anthropology and Economics"] {{Wayback|url=https://www.jstor.org/stable/1824430 |date=20200802152603 }}, 1941, ''JPE''.
* "Science, Philosophy and Social Procedure", 1942, ''Ethics''
* "Fact and Value in Social Science", 1942, in Anshen, editor, ''Science and Man''
* "Some Notes on the Economic Interpretation of History", 1942, ''Studies in the History of Culture'' (repr. in 1999, II)
* "Social Causation", 1943, ''American Journal of Sociology'' (repr. in 1956)
* "Diminishing Returns Under Investment", 1944, ''JPE''.
* "Realism and Relevance in the Theory of Demand", 1944, ''JPE'' (repr. in 1999, II)
* "The Rights of Man and Natural Law", 1944, ''Ethics'' (repr. in 1999, II)
* "Human Nature and World Democracy", 1944, ''American J of Sociology''.
* "Economics, Political Science and Education", 1944, ''AER''
* ''The Economic Order and Religion'', with T.W. Merriam, 1945.
* "Immutable Law in Economics: Its reality and limitations", 1946, ''AER''.
* "The Sickness of Liberal Society", 1946, ''Ethics'' (repr. in 1999, II)
* "Salvation by Science: The gospel according to Professor Lundberg", 1947, ''JPE'' (repr. in 1956)
* ''Freedom and Reform: Essays in economics and social philosophy'', 1947.
* "Free Society: Its basic nature and problem", 1948, ''Philosophical Review'' (repr. in 1956)
* "The Role of Principles in Economics and Politics", 1951, ''AER'' (repr. in 1956 & 1999, II)
* "Institutionalism and Empiricism in Economics", 1952, ''AER''.
* ''On the History and Methods of Economics: Selected essays'', 1956, {{ISBN|978-0-226-44689-9}}.
* ''Intelligence and Democratic Action'', 1960.
* "Methodology in Economics", 1961, ''Southern EJ''
* "Abstract Economics as Absolute Ethics", 1966, ''Ethics''.
* "Laissez Faire: Pro and con", 1967, ''JPE'' (repr. in 1999, II)
* "The Case for Communism: From the Standpoint of an Ex-liberal." (published posthumously) in ''Research in the History of Economic Thought and Methodology'', edited by Warren J. Samuels, archival supplement 2 (1991): 57–108.
* ''Selected Essays by Frank H. Knight, Volume 1: "What is Truth" in Economics?'', (ed. by Ross B. Emmett), 1999, {{ISBN|978-0-226-44695-0}}
* ''Selected Essays by Frank H. Knight, Volume 2: Laissez Faire: Pro and Con'', (ed. by Ross B. Emmett), 1999, {{ISBN|978-0-226-44697-4}}

==延伸阅读==
* Burgin, Angus (November 2009). "The Radical Conservatism of Frank H. Knight," ''Modern Intellectual History,'' 6:513–38.
* Emmett, Ross B. (1999). "Introduction", in ''Selected Essays by Frank H. Knight'', 2 vols., (ed. by Ross Emmett).
* Emmett, Ross B. (2009). "Did the Chicago School Reject Frank Knight?", in ''Frank Knight and the Chicago School in American Economics'', {{ISBN|978-0-415-77500-7}}.
* {{cite web | last = Fonseca | first = Gonçalo L | title = Frank H. Knight, 1885–1972 | work = The History of Economic Thought Website | publisher = [[The_New_School_for_Social_Research|The New School for Social Research]] | url = http://cepa.newschool.edu/het/profiles/knight.htm | accessdate = 2008-05-07 | url-status = dead | archiveurl = https://web.archive.org/web/20080429204107/http://cepa.newschool.edu/het/profiles/knight.htm | archivedate = 2008-04-29 }}
* {{cite encyclopedia |last=Boyd |first=Robert |authorlink= |editor-first=Ronald |editor-last=Hamowy |editor-link=Ronald Hamowy |encyclopedia=The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism |url=https://books.google.com/books?id=yxNgXs3TkJYC |year=2008 |publisher=[[SAGE_Publications|SAGE]]; [[Cato_Institute|Cato Institute]] |location=Thousand Oaks, CA |doi=10.4135/9781412965811.n164 |isbn=978-1412965804 |oclc=750831024 |lccn=2008009151 |pages=274–75 |quote= |ref= |chapter= |title=Knight, Frank H. (1885–1972) |access-date=2020-04-26 |archive-date=2019-07-23 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190723150834/https://books.google.com/books?id=yxNgXs3TkJYC |dead-url=no }}
* Kasper, Sherryl (2002). ''The Revival of Laissez-Faire in American Macroeconomic Theory: A Case Study of Its Pioneers''. ch. 2.
* [[George_Stigler|Stigler, G.]] (1985). "Frank Hyneman Knight", University of Chicago Press – Center for the Study of the Economy and the State, Working Papers Series, Working Paper No. 37.
* [[Harrison_White|White, Harrison C.]] (2002). ''Markets from Networks: Socioeconomic Models of Production'', Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

{{Authority control}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Knight, Frank Hyneman}}
[[Category:伊利諾州人|Category:伊利諾州人]]
[[Category:康乃爾大學校友|Category:康乃爾大學校友]]
[[Category:芝加哥大學教師|Category:芝加哥大學教師]]
[[Category:美国经济学家|Category:美国经济学家]]
[[Category:經濟思想史學家|Category:經濟思想史學家]]
[[Category:芝加哥學派經濟學家|Category:芝加哥學派經濟學家]]
[[Category:朝圣山学社成员|Category:朝圣山学社成员]]