{{Pharaoh Infobox | 
    Name= 赫里霍尔| 
    Image= KingHerihorAdoreOsiris.jpg|
Caption=赫里霍尔像|
ImageSize=300|
  Alt=|
PrenomenHiero=<hiero>R8-U36-D1*p:n-i-mn:n</hiero>|
Prenomen=''Hem-netjer-tep-en-Amun''<br>First Priest of Amun| 
Golden=|
NomenHiero=<hiero>i-m:n-N1:H8*Z1-G5</hiero>|
Nomen=''Hérihor Siamun''<br>Horus is Raised, Son of Amun| 
Nebty=| 
Horus=| 
GoldenHiero=|
NebtyHiero=|
HorusHiero=| 
Reign=|
Dynasty=|
Coregency=|
Predecessor=|
Successor=|
Spouse=Nodjmet|
children=|
Father=|
Mother=| 
Born=|
Died=|
Burial=|
Monuments=
}}

'''赫里霍尔'''（{{lang-en|Herihor}}） [[古埃及|古埃及]]军官，篡位的[[阿蒙|阿蒙]]高级僧侣。于[[第二十王朝|第二十王朝]]末年国家分裂时建立僧侣—国王王朝，统治[[上埃及|上埃及]]地区。出身不详。为[[拉美西斯十一世|拉美西斯十一世]]（公元前1075年结束的第二十王朝末任法老）时期从军队里被提拔的军官。于[[底比斯|底比斯]][[柯恩斯|柯恩斯]]神庙中，详细记载了他夺取王位的过程。神庙大殿的[[浮雕|浮雕]]表明他具有阿蒙高级僧侣、将军和首领等称号，最后自立为法老。其死后约2年拉美西斯十一世去世。<ref>M. Gustave Lefebvre, ''Herihor'', Vizir (Statue du Caire, no 42190), ASAE 26 (1926), 63-68</ref>

==参考==
{{reflist}}

==扩展阅读==
* M. Gustave Lefebvre, ''Herihor'', Vizir (Statue du Caire, no 42190), ASAE 26 (1926), 63-68

* Hermann Kees, ''Die Hohenpriester des Amun von Karnak von Herihor bis zum Ende der Äthiopenzeit'' (1964).  Leiden:  E. J. Brill

* Marie-Ange Bonhême, ''Hérihor fut-il effectivement roi?'', BIFAO 79 (1979), 267-283

* Dennis C. Forbes, ''King Herihor, the 'Renaissance' & the 21st Dynasty'', KMT 4-3 (1993), 25-41

* Jeremy Goldberg, ''Was Piankh The Son Of Herihor After All?'', [[GM|GM]] 174 (2000), 49-58

* Ad Thijs, ''In Search of King Herihor and the Penultimate Ruler of the 20th Dynasty'', Zeitschrift für Ägyptische Sprache und Altertumskunde 132 (2005), 73-91

* Peter James & Robert Morkot, ''Herihor's Kingship and the High Priest Piankh'', JEGH 3.2 (2010), 231-260

* Ben Haring, ''Stela Leiden V 65 and Herihor's Damnatio Memoriae'', Studien zur Altägyptischen Kultur 41 (2012), 139-152

{{Authority control}}
{{著名埃及统治者}}
[[Category:法老|Category:法老]]
[[Category:開國君主|Category:開國君主]]