在[[卡尔·马克思|卡尔·马克思]]和[[弗里德里希·恩格斯|弗里德里希·恩格斯]]以及后来的一些[[马克思主义|马克思主义]]學者的理论著作中，'''生产社会化'''是指商品的[[生产|生产]]和銷售从個人的行为转变为[[社会关系|社会]]和集体的行為的过程。在资本主义出現之前，基本上商品生產僅需个人就能獨自完成。随着[[资本主义|资本主义]]的发展，商品生产開始集中在[[企业|企业]]，并且商品生產過程越来越机械化。生产社会化的產生原因是由于[[资本|资本]]在相關[[产业|产业]]日益集中，[[规模报酬|資本投資回报率]]不断提高，劳动分工不断深化以及日益复杂的生产形式和生產技術专业化<ref>{{Cite book|last=Warhurst|first=Chris|last2=Keep|first2=Ewart|last3=Grugulis|first3=Irena|origyear=2004|title=The Skills That Matter|url=https://archive.org/details/skillsthatmatter0000unse|publisher=Palgrave|publication-date=February 27, 2004|page=[https://archive.org/details/skillsthatmatter0000unse/page/242 242]–260|isbn=9781403906397|quote=.|date=2004-02-27}}</ref>。

马克思在[[政治经济学批判|政治经济学批判]]中指出，随着资本主义的发展，生產社会化与[[剩余价值|剩余价值]]之间出现矛盾。古典马克思主义者认为，这种矛盾激化到一定程度，就必须通過[[生产资料|生产资料]]社会所有制的形式实现剩余价值的社会化，从而实现资本主义向[[社会主义|社会主义]]过渡<ref>''Capital, Volume 1'', by Marx, Karl. From "Chapter 32: Historical Tendency of Capitalist Accumulation": "Self-earned private property, that is based, so to say, on the fusing together of the isolated, independent laboring-individual with the conditions of his labor, is supplanted by capitalistic private property, which rests on exploitation of the nominally free labor of others, i.e., on wage-labor. As soon as this process of transformation has sufficiently decomposed the old society from top to bottom, as soon as the laborers are turned into proletarians, their means of labor into capital, as soon as the capitalist mode of production stands on its own feet, then the further socialization of labor and further transformation of the land and other means of production into socially exploited and, therefore, common means of production, as well as the further expropriation of private proprietors, takes a new form. That which is now to be expropriated is no longer the laborer working for himself, but the capitalist exploiting many laborers."</ref>。

== 備註 ==
{{Reflist|2}}

[[Category:社會學理論|Category:社會學理論]]
[[Category:政治经济学|Category:政治经济学]]
[[Category:资本主义|Category:资本主义]]
[[Category:馬克思主義|Category:馬克思主義]]
[[Category:马克思主义经济学|Category:马克思主义经济学]]