{{Speciesbox
 | image = Pyramidellidae - Otopleura auriscati.jpg
 | taxon = Otopleura auriscati
 | authority = (Holten, 1802)
 | synonyms_ref = {{r|WoRMS_217259|Vine 1986}}
 | synonyms = 
* ''Pyramidella auriscati'' <small>Holten, 1802</small>
* ''Pyramidella magnifica'' <small>Adams & Reeve, 1850</small>
* ''Pyramidella plicata'' <small>Lamarck, J.B.P.A. de, 1816</small>
* ''Pyramidella spiralis'' <small>Wood</small>
* ''Voluta auriscati'' <small>Holten, 1802</small> (original combination)
}}

'''貓耳塔螺'''（學名：''{{lang|la|Otopleura auriscati}}''）{{r|shell_1767|shellstudio}}是一個[[海螺|海螺]]的[[物种|物种]]，屬於[[小塔螺科|小塔螺科]]的[[海洋生物|海洋]][[腹足纲|腹足纲]][[软体动物|软体动物]]{{r|WoRMS_217259|Vine 1986}}。

==型態描述==
殼長10 mm到30 mm。色白、平滑、質厚堅實{{r|shellstudio}}，呈細長的卵形或水滴狀{{r|shellstudio}}。

螺塔稍尖，[[縫合溝|縫合溝]]深。有縱肋，內唇有粗齒。殼表灰褐色有黑褐色雜斑。{{r|shellstudio}}

==分佈及棲息地==
本物種見於以下各地{{r|WoRMS_217259|Vine 1986|shellstudio}}<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.environment.gov.au/biodiversity/abrs/online-resources/fauna/afd/taxa/Otopleura_auriscati |title=Australian Biological Resources Study - Australian Faunal Directory |language=en }}</ref>：
* [[印度洋|印度洋]]
** [[红海|红海]]
** [[马达加斯加|马达加斯加]]{{r|shellstudio}}、[[毛里求斯|毛里求斯]]、[[坦桑尼亞|坦桑尼亞]]{{r|shellstudio}}
** [[澳大利亞|澳大利亞]]（[[西澳大利亚州|西澳大利亚州]]）
* [[西太平洋|西太平洋]]
** [[澳大利亞|澳大利亞]]（[[北領地|北領地]]、[[昆士蘭州|昆士蘭州]]）
** [[新喀里多尼亞|新喀里多尼亞]]{{r|shellstudio}}
** [[印度尼西亚|印度尼西亚]]及[[菲律宾|菲律宾]]
** [[泰國|泰國]]、[[馬來西亞|馬來西亞]]{{r|shellstudio}}
** [[南中國海|南中國海]]{{r|shelldoc_420090224012|shelldoc_420090223023}}的[[海南島|海南島]]及[[西沙群島|西沙群島]]{{r|shell_1767}}、[[台灣海峽|台灣海峽]]{{r|shelldoc_420090224012}}及[[澎湖|澎湖]]海域{{r|shellstudio|shelldoc_200001|shelldoc_420090224006}}
** [[日本列島|日本列島]]及[[琉球群島|琉球群島]]{{r|shellstudio|ntou|shelldoc_200001}}
棲息於潮間帶至淺海泥沙底{{r|shellstudio}}。

==參考文獻==
{{reflist|refs=
<ref name="ntou">{{cite web |url=http://meda.ntou.edu.tw/shell/?t=1&i=3705 |work=國立台灣海洋大學-海洋教育數位典藏-來自海洋的珍寶 |title=海貝 [貓耳塔螺] |access-date=2018-09-21 |language=zh-hant }}</ref>
<ref name="shell_1767">{{cite web
 |url=http://shell.sinica.edu.tw/chinese/shellbase_detail.php?science_no=1767
 |title=国际贝库：貓耳塔螺|publisher=台湾贝类资料库
 |access-date=2018-09-21 |language=zh-hant }}</ref>
<ref name="shelldoc_200001">{{shelldoc_200001}}</ref>
<ref name="shelldoc_420090223023">{{shelldoc_420090223023}}</ref>
<ref name="shelldoc_420090224006">{{shelldoc_420090224006}}</ref>
<ref name="shelldoc_420090224012">{{shelldoc_420090224012}}</ref>
<ref name="shellstudio">{{cite web
 |url=http://www.shellstudio.com.tw/otopleura-auriscati.html
 |title=貓耳塔螺 Otopleura auriscati
 |work=蠔宅貝殼工作室：貝殼博物館
 |access-date=2018-09-21 |language=zh-hant }}</ref>
<ref name="WoRMS_217259">{{WoRMS |id=217259
 |title=''Otopleura auriscati'' (Holten, 1802) |db=MolluscaBase
 |last=Rosenberg |first=G.
 |access-date=2012-01-12 }}</ref>
<ref name="Vine 1986">Vine, P. (1986). Red Sea Invertebrates. Immel Publishing, London. 224 pp.</ref>
}}
* Chemnitz, J.H. 1795. ''Neues systematisches Conchylien - Cabinet''. Nürnberg : G.N. Raspe Vol. 11 312 + 124 pp., pls 174 -213. 
* Holten, H.S. 1802. ''Enumeratio Systematica Conchyliae'' Beat. J.H. Chemnitz. Copenhagen : K.H. Scidelini 88 pp.
* Lamarck, J.B.P.A. de M. 1816. ''Liste des objets représentés dans les planches de cette livraison. pp. 1-16 in Lamarck, J.B.P.A. de M. Tableau encyclopédique et méthodique des trois règnes de la nature. Vers, coquilles, mollusques et polypiers''. Paris : Agasse Part 23 pp. 1-16, pls 391-488.
* Dillwyn, L.W. 1817. ''A Descriptive Catalogue of Recent Shells, arranged according to the Linnaean method; with particular attention to the synonymy.'' London : John and Arthur Arch 2 volumes 1092 + 29 pp.
* Adams, A. 1853. ''Family Pyramidellidae''. pp. 228-235 in Adams, H. & Adams, A. The genera of Recent Mollusca arranged according to their organization. London : John Van Voorst Vol. 1(Parts I-VIII) pp. 1-256, pls 1-32.
* Tryon, G.W. 1886. ''Manual of Conchology, structural and systematic: with illustrations of the species.'' Series 2 Philadelphia : Published by the author Vol. 8 pp. 461, pls 79.
* Dautzenberg, Ph. (1929). ''Mollusques testacés marins de Madagascar.'' Faune des Colonies Francaises, Tome III
* Laseron, C. 1959. T''he family Pyramidellidae (Mollusca) from northern Australia''. Australian Journal of Marine and Freshwater Research 10: 177-267, figs 1-213 
* Higo, S., Callomon, P. & Goto, Y. (1999) ''Catalogue and Bibliography of the Marine Shell-Bearing Mollusca of Japan''. Elle Scientific Publications, Yao, Japan, 749 pp. page(s): 356

===參考書目===
* Adams, A. 1854. ''Monographs of the genera Eulima, Niso, Leiostraca, Obeliscus, Pyramidella and Monoptygma''. pp. 793-825 in Sowerby, G.B. (ed.). Thesaurus Conchyliorum or monographs of genera of shells. London : Sowerby Vol. 2 pp. 439-899.
* Reeve, L.A. 1865. ''Monograph of the genus Pyramidella''. pls 1-6 in Reeve, L.A. (ed). Conchologia Iconica. London : L. Reeve & Co. Vol. 15.
* Tryon, G.W. 1886. ''Manual of Conchology, structural and systematic: with illustrations of the species. Series 2'' Philadelphia : Published by the author Vol. 8 pp. 461, pls 79.
* Clessin, S 1902. ''Die Familie der Eulimidae. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet von Martini und Chemnitz'' 1(28): 1-273, pls 1-41
* Dall, W.H. & Bartsch, P. 1904. ''Synopsis of the genera, subgenera and sections of the family Pyramidellidae''. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 17: 1-16
* Schepman, M.M. 1909. ''The Prosobranchia of the Siboga Expedition. Part 3 Gymnoglossa''. pp.234-245 in Weber, M. (ed.). Siboga-Expedite. Leiden : Brill Vol. 48.
* Hedley, C. 1910. ''The marine fauna of Queensland''. Australasian Association for the Advancement of Science 12: 329-371
* Allan, J.K. 1950. ''Australian Shells: with related animals living in the sea, in freshwater and on the land''. Melbourne : Georgian House xix, 470 pp., 45 pls, 112 text figs.
* Laseron, C. 1959. ''The family Pyramidellidae (Mollusca) from northern Australia.'' Australian Journal of Marine and Freshwater Research 10: 177-267, figs 1-213 
* {{cite journal |last=Saurin |first=E. |year=1959 |title=Pyramidellidae de Nha-Trang (Viet-Nam) |trans-title=越南芽莊的小塔螺科物種 |journal=''[[Annales_de_la_Faculté_des_Sciences,_Saigon|Annales de la Faculté des Sciences, Saigon]]'' |volume=1959 |pages=223-283, pls 1-9 |language=fr }}
* Rippingale, O.H. & McMichael, D.F. 1961. ''Queensland and Great Barrier Reef Shells.'' Brisbane : Jacaranda Press 210 pp.
* Cernohorsky, W.O. 1972. ''Marine Shells of the Pacific.'' Sydney : Pacific Publications Vol. 2 411 pp., 68 pls.
* Tantanasiriwong, R. 1978. ''An illustrated checklist of marine shelled gastropods from Phuket Island, adjacent mainland and offshore islands, Western Peninsula, Thailand.'' Phuket Marine Biological Center, Research Bulletin 21: 1-22, 259 figs
* Coleman, N. 1981. ''What shell is that?'' Sydney : Lansdowne Press, Sydney 308 pp.
* Springsteen, F.J. & Leobrera, F.M. 1986. ''Shells of the Philippines''. Manila : Carfel Seashell Museum 377 pp., 100 pls.
* Short, J.W. & Potter, D.G. 1987. ''Shells of Queensland and The Great Barrier Reef.'' Drummoyne, NSW : Golden press Pty Ltd 135 pp., 60 pl.
* Wells, F.F., Bryce, C.W., Clark, J.E. & Hansen, G.M. 1990. C''hristmas Shells. The marine molluscs of Christmas Island (Indian Ocean). Christmas Island: Australia'' : Christmas Island Natural History Association 98 pp., pls 1-81.
* Okutani, T. 2000. ''Marine mollusks in Japan''. [[東海大學出版社|Tokai University Press]] 1173 pp.
* Willan, R.C. 2005. ''The molluscan fauna from the emergent reefs of the northernmost Sahul Shelf, Timor Sea — Ashmore, Cartier and Hibernia Reefs; biodiversity and zoogeography.'' pp. 51-81 in Russell, B.C. et al. (eds). Understanding the Cultural and Natural Heritage values and Management Challenges of the Ashmore Region. The Beagle, Records of the Museums and Art Galleries of the Northern Territory Suppl. 1: 248 pp.

==外部連結==
{{Commonscat|Otopleura auriscati}}
*{{Wikispecies-inline|Otopleura auriscati}}
* [https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/name/Otopleura+auriscati To Biodiversity Heritage Library (1 publication)]
* [http://www.eol.org/pages/4812934 To Encyclopedia of Life]
* [http://www.marinespecies.org/aphia.php?p=taxdetails&id=217259 To World Register of Marine Species]
* [http://www.gastropods.com/6/Shell_4026.shtml Gastropods.com: ''Otopleura auriscati''; retrieved: 30 January 2012]
{{Taxonbar|from=Q7109004}}
[[Category:小塔螺科|Category:小塔螺科]]