{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Ampelocissus
| authority = Planch., 1887
| image = Ampelocissus latifolia.jpg
| image_caption = Ampelocissus latifolia
| type species = Ampelocissus latifolia
| type species authority = (Roxb.) Planch.
}}

'''酸蔹藤属'''（[[学名|学名]]：''Ampelocissus''），是[[葡萄科|葡萄科]]下的一个属。

==下属物种==
* ''Ampelocissus abyssinica'' (Hochst. ex A. Rich.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus acapulcensis'' (Kunth) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus acetosa'' (F. Muell.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus aculeata'' (Span.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus africana'' (Lour.) Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus amentacea'' Ridl.
* ''Ampelocissus angolensis'' (Baker) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus arachnoidea'' (Hassk.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus araneosa'' (Dalzell) Gamble
* [[酸蔹藤|酸蔹藤]] ''Ampelocissus artemisiifolia'' Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus ascendiflora'' Latiff
* ''Ampelocissus asekii'' J. Wen, Kiapranis & Lovave
* ''Ampelocissus banaensis'' Gagnep.
* ''Ampelocissus barbata'' (Wall.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus birii'' P. Singh & B. V. Shetty
* ''Ampelocissus bombycina'' (Baker) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus borneensis'' Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus botryostachys'' Planch.
* [[四川酸蔹藤|四川酸蔹藤]] ''Ampelocissus butoensis'' C. L. Li
* ''Ampelocissus capillaris'' (Ridl.) Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus celebica'' Suess.
* ''Ampelocissus changensis'' Craib
* ''Ampelocissus cinnamomea'' (Wall.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus complanata'' Latiff
* ''Ampelocissus concinna'' (Baker) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus debilis'' Ridl.
* ''Ampelocissus dekindtiana'' Gilg
* ''Ampelocissus dichothrix'' (Miq.) Suess.
* ''Ampelocissus dissecta'' (Baker) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus divaricata'' (Wall. ex M. A. Lawson) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus dolichobotrys Quisumb. & Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus edulis'' (De Wild.) Gilg & Brandt
* ''Ampelocissus elegans'' (Kurz) Gagnep.
* ''Ampelocissus elephantina Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus erdvendbergiana Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus filipes Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus floccosus'' (Ridl.) Galet
* ''Ampelocissus frutescens'' Jackes
* ''Ampelocissus gardineri'' (Bailey) Jackes
* ''Ampelocissus gracilipes Stapf
* ''Ampelocissus gracilis'' (Wall.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus harmandii'' Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus helferi'' (M. A. Lawson) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus heyneana'' (Roem. & Schult.) Planch.
* [[红河酸蔹藤|红河酸蔹藤]] ''Ampelocissus hoabinhensis'' C. L. Li
* ''Ampelocissus humulifolia'' Gagnep.
* ''Ampelocissus imperialis'' (Miq.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus indica'' (L.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus iomalla Gilg & Brandt
* ''Ampelocissus javalensis'' (Seem.) W. D. Stevens & A. Pool
* ''Ampelocissus korthalsii Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus latifolia'' (Roxb.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus leonensis'' (Hook. fil.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus leptotricha'' Diels
* ''Ampelocissus lowii'' (Hook. fil.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus macrocirrha'' Gilg & Brandt
* ''Ampelocissus madulidii'' Latiff
* ''Ampelocissus martinii'' Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus mesoamericana'' Lombardi
* ''Ampelocissus mottleyi'' (Hook. fil.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus muelleriana'' Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus multifoliola'' Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus multiloba'' Gilg & M. Brandt
* ''Ampelocissus multistriata'' (Baker) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus nitida'' (M. A. Lawson) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus obtusata'' (Welw. ex Baker) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus ochracea'' (Teijsm. & Binn.) Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus pauciflora'' Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus pedicellata'' Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus phoenicantha'' Alston
* ''Ampelocissus poggei'' Gilg & Brandt
* ''Ampelocissus polystachya'' (Wall.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus polythyrsa'' (Miq.) Gagnep.
* ''Ampelocissus pterisanthella'' (Ridl.) Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus racemifera'' (Jackes) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus robinsonii'' Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus rubiginosa'' Lauterb.
* ''Ampelocissus rubriflora'' Gagnep.
* ''Ampelocissus rugosa'' (Wall.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus sapinii'' (De Wild.) Gilg & Brandt
* ''Ampelocissus sarcocephala'' (Schweinf. ex Planch.) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus schimperiana'' (Hochst. ex A. Rich.) Planch.
* [[锡金酸蔹藤|锡金酸蔹藤]] ''Ampelocissus sikkimensis'' (M. A. Lawson) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus sinuosa'' (Merr.) J. Wen & Boggan
* ''Ampelocissus sphaerophylla'' (Baker) Suess.
* ''Ampelocissus tenuis'' Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus thyrsiflora'' (Blume) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus tomentosa'' (B. Heyne ex Roth) Planch.
* ''Ampelocissus trichoclada'' Quisumb. & Merr.
* ''Ampelocissus verschuerenii'' De Wild.
* ''Ampelocissus wightiana'' B. V. Shetty & P. Singh
* ''Ampelocissus winkleri'' Lauterb.
* [[西藏酸蔹藤|西藏酸蔹藤]] ''Ampelocissus xizangensis'' C. L. Li

==参考資料==
{{reflist}}

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_酸蔹藤属|*]]
[[Category:_葡萄科|S]]
[[Category:_1887年描述的分类群|S]]