{{Infobox person
| name           = 克里斯蒂娜·德·皮桑
| image          = Christine de Pisan - cathedra.jpg
| image_size     = 300px
| caption        = 克里斯蒂娜·德·皮桑像
| birth_date     = 1364年
| birth_place    = {{flag|Republic of Venice}}[[威尼斯|威尼斯]]
| death_date     = {{death year and age|1430|1364}}
| death_place    = 
| education      =
| occupation     = 
| spouse         = 
| parents        =
| children       =
}}

'''克里斯蒂娜·德·皮桑'''（{{lang-it|Christine de Pizan}}，{{bd|1364年||1430年|}}），出生于[[威尼斯|威尼斯]]，[[文艺复兴时期|文艺复兴时期]][[欧洲|欧洲]][[威尼斯|威尼斯]][[诗人|诗人]]。因为其父被任命为[[法国|法国]]国王[[查理五世|查理五世]]的[[皇家|皇家]][[占星家|占星家]]，所以她在宫中成长。在文艺复兴前的法国，她维护妇女的事业，倡导给青年妇女平等教育的机会。<ref>Sandra Sider.（2007）. ''Handbook to Life in Renaissance Europe''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195330847.</ref>

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

==扩展阅读==
*Altmann, Barbara K., and Deborah L. McGrady, eds. ''Christine de Pizan: A Casebook.'' New York: Routledge, 2003.
*Altmann, Barbara K., "Christine de Pizan as Maker of the Middle Ages," in: ''Cahier Calin: Makers of the Middle Ages. Essays in Honor of William Calin'', ed. Richard Utz and Elizabeth Emery (Kalamazoo, MI: Studies in Medievalism, 2011), pp. 30–32.
*Brown-Grant, Rosalind., ''Christine de Pizan and the Moral Defence of Women: Reading beyond Gender.'' Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999.
*Brown-Grant, Rosalind. trans. and ed. ''Christine de Pizan. The Book of the City of Ladies.'' Harmondsworth, UK: Penguin Books, 1999.
*Campbell, Karlyn K., ''Three Tall Women: Radical Challenges to Criticism, Pedagogy, and Theory'', The Carroll C. Arnold Distinguished Lecture National Communication Association November 2001 Boston: Pearson Education Inc, 2003.
* Desmond, Marilynn, Pamela Sheingorn, ''Myth, Montage, and Visuality in Late Medieval Manuscript Culture: Christine de Pizan's'' Epistre Othea (Ann Arbor, MI, University of Michigan Press, 2003).
* Dulac, Liliane, Anne Paupert, Christine Reno, and Bernard Ribémont, eds., ''Desireuse de plus avant enquerre... Actes du VIe colloque international sur Christine de Pizan (Paris juillet 2006): Volume en hommage à James Laidlaw'' (Paris, Éditions Champion, 2008) (Etudes Christinienne).
*Fenster, Thelma S., and Nadia Margolis, eds. and trans. ''Christine de Pizan, The Book of the Duke of True Lovers.'' New York: Persea, 1991.
*Green, Karen, and Constant J. Mews, eds. ''Healing the Body Politic: The Political Thought of Christine de Pizan'', Turnhout, Belgium: Brepols, 2005.
*Green, Karen, Constant J. Mews, and Janice Pinder, eds. ''The Book of Peace by Christine de Pizan.''University Park: Penn State Press, 2008.
*Kosta-Théfaine, Jean-François. ''La Poétesse et la guerrière : Lecture du 'Ditié de Jehanne d'Arc' de Christine de Pizan''. Lille: TheBookEdition, 2008. Pp. 108.
*[[Mathilde_Laigle|Laigle, Mathilde]], ''Le livre des trois vertus de Christine de Pisan et son milieu historique et littéraire'', Paris, Honoré Champion, 1912, 375 pages, collection : Bibliothèque du XVe siècle siècle (this book is the translation of an American thesis of Mathilde Laigle, Columbia U.)
*Margolis, Nadia, ''An Introduction to Christine de Pizan.'' New Perspectives in Medieval Literature, 1. Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 2011.
*Quilligan, Maureen, ''The Allegory of Female Authority: Christine de Pizan's "Cité des Dames".'' New York: Cornell University Press, 1991.
*Redfern, Jenny, "Christine de Pisan and The Treasure of the City of Ladies: A Medieval Rhetorician and Her Rhetoric" in Lunsford, Andrea A, ed. ''Reclaiming Rhetorica: Women and in the Rhetorical Tradition'', Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1995.
*Reno, Christine, and Liliane Dulac, eds. ''Le Livre de l’Advision Cristine.'' Études christiniennes, 4. Paris: Champion, 2000.
*Richards, Earl Jeffrey, ed., ''Reinterpreting Christine de Pizan'', Athens, GA: University of Georgia Press, 1992.
*Richards, Earl Jeffrey, ed. and trans. ''Christine de Pizan, The Book of the City of Ladies.'' Intro. by Natalie Zemon Davis.  Rev. ed. New York: Persea, 1998.
*Willard, Charity C., ed, ''The "Livre de Paix" of Christine de Pisan: A Critical Edition'', The Hague: Mouton, 1958. (now superseded by Green, et al. ed., see above).
*Willard, Charity C., ''Christine de Pizan: Her Life and Works.'' New York: Persea Books, 1984
*Angus J. Kennedy's "Christine de Pizan: A Bibliographical Guide'' and supplements (London: Grant & Cutler, 1984, 1994, 2004).

==外部链接==
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20100506042725/http://www.jeanne-darc.dk/p_multimedia/literature/christine_de_pisan.html Ditie de Jehanne d'Arc - French w/ English translation]
*{{gutenberg author| id=Christine+de+Pisan | name=Christine de Pisan}}
*[http://www.arlima.net/ad/christine_de_pizan.html Comprehensive bibliography of her works, including listings of the manuscripts, editions, translations, and essays.] in French at [http://www.arlima.net Archives de littérature du Moyen Âge (Arlima)]
*[http://books.google.com/books?id=zcURAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA264 '"A Champion of Her Sex",] [[William_Minto|W. Minto]] in ''Macmillan's Magazine'', Volume LXIII, Nov. 1885 – Apr. 1886, pp. 264–275
{{Commons category|Christine de Pisan}}

{{Authority control}}

[[Category:诗人|Category:诗人]]