{{noteTA
|G1 =Family Guy
|G2 =Cartoon
}}
{{Infobox character
| name       = 克里斯·格里芬
| series     =《[[居家男人|居家男人]]》
| image      =
| caption    = 
| first      = 《[[Death_Has_a_Shadow|Death Has a Shadow]]》
| creator    = [[塞思·麦克法兰|塞思·麦克法兰]]
| voice      = [[塞思·格林|塞思·格林]]
| fullname   = 克里斯托弗·克罗斯·格里芬
| occupation = [[高中生|高中生]]<br />[[送報員|送報員]] {{small|（工作經歷）}}
| family     = {{unbulleted list 
 | [[Peter's_Two_Dads|米基·麦克芬尼根]] {{small|（爺爺）}}
 | [[居家男人角色列表#彼得的家庭|弗朗西斯·格里芬]] {{small|（爺爺）}}
 | [[居家男人角色列表#彼得的家庭|特尔玛·格里芬]] {{small|（奶奶）}}
 |[[彼得·格里芬|彼得·格里芬]] {{small|（父親）}}
 |[[洛伊丝·格里芬|洛伊丝·格里芬]] {{small|（母親）}}
 |[[梅格·格里芬|梅格·格里芬]] {{small|（姐）}}
 |[[斯图威·格里芬|斯图威·格里芬]] {{small|（弟）}}
| significantother    = 
| spouse      =
| children    = 
}}
| relatives  = 
{{unbulleted list 
 | [[卡特·皮尤特施密特|卡特·皮尤特施密特]] {{small|（外公）}}
 | [[芭芭拉·皮尤特施密特|芭芭拉·皮尤特施密特]] {{small|（外婆）}}
 | [[帕特里克·皮尤特施密特|帕特里克·皮尤特施密特]] {{small|（舅）}}
 | [[卡罗尔·皮尤特施密特|卡罗尔·皮尤特施密特]] {{small|（姨）}}
 | [[亚当·韦斯特_(居家男人)|亚当·韦斯特]] {{small|（姨丈）}}
 | 小格里芬 {{small|（家人）}} 
 | [[布赖恩·格里芬|布赖恩·格里芬]] {{small|（寵物）}}
}}
| religion    =
| nationality = [[美国|美国]]
}}

'''克里斯托弗·克罗斯"克里斯"·格里芬'''（'''{{lang-en|Christopher Cross "Chris" Griffin}}'''） <!-- DO NOT CHANGE TO MEGATRON Peter changed her name to Megatron on the birth certificate, BUT it's a 1-off cutaway gag. NOT NOTABLE unless they keep it up -->是美国喜剧动画《[[居家男人|居家男人]]》角色。他是[[彼得·格里芬|彼得]]和[[洛伊丝·格里芬|洛伊丝]]的孩子，[[梅格·格里芬|梅格·格里芬]]和[[斯图威·格里芬|斯图威·格里芬]]的兄弟。克里斯是由[[塞思·格林|塞思·格林]]配音。早初为一个叛逆、不卫生和心智未熟的少年。与相关克里斯的噱头包括“邪恶的猴子”在他的衣柜裡的存在性，及恋童癖者[[赫伯特_(居家男人)|赫伯特]]。

==角色起源==
克里斯类似《[[拉里短片|拉里的生活]]》主角拉里·卡明斯的儿子米尔特。{{Citation needed|date=August 2009}}克里斯最初是[[朋克搖滾|朋克]]的形象，根据创作者[[塞思·麦克法兰|塞思·麦克法兰]]的DVD评论。他在前三季穿耳环，和他痛苦沒像后来的集数强调。{{Citation needed|date=August 2009}}

克里斯源自[[特德·莱文|特德·莱文]]在《[[沉默的羔羊|沉默的羔羊]]》饰演詹姆·甘。格林试镜克里斯的角色，固然做出角色的印象。<ref>{{cite news|title=Fans help 'Family Guy' return to Fox|work=[[Observer-Reporter|Observer-Reporter]]|date=April 29, 2005|page=E5}}</ref>主要想法是设想野牛比尔听起来像在[[麦当劳|麦当劳]]通过扩音系统说。<ref>{{cite video|people=Green, Seth|title=Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story: Audio Commentary|medium=DVD|date=September 27, 2005}}</ref>在《[[Stew-Roids|Stew-Roids]]》，克里斯重拍电影的场景中野牛比尔在镜前裸舞，尽管他的阴茎夾在两腿后面。
<!--
==人格==
克里斯处理大多青春期的男孩所面临的问题：[[粉刺|粉刺]]，女孩，和学校。克里斯已经知道，觉得自我意识对自己，尤其是他的体重。事实上，在第一片DVD电视指南特别版裡说明，克里斯不会伤害苍蝇，除非落在他的热狗。由于克里斯的体重，他被称为“大象的孩子”而诞生的。克里斯也愿意皈依犹太教才能做的更好的学校，特别是数学。他曾经相信他的数学低分造成当他在坚持军队男子步枪到他的鼻子並意外穿到肺叶。克里斯喜欢绘画，曾经在纽约成为一著名的艺术家。

Chris also has an apparent physical attraction to his mother, Lois, which was noted in the commentary of ''[[Stewie_Griffin:_The_Untold_Story|Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story]]'', near the end of the movie Peter comments about "The [[incest|incest]] episode". It is also seen in "[[E._Peterbus_Unum|E. Peterbus Unum]]" (where he hands Meg a note that reads "I think Mrs. Griffin is hot") and in "[[Model_Misbehavior|Model Misbehavior]]" (where he says that he will [[masturbation|masturbate]] to pictures of her). Chris, like his father, is [[obesity|obese]], has a low [[IQ|IQ]] and no common sense. While Chris' low intelligence level is often viewed as a heredity commonality with his father, it is mentioned in the episode "[[Peter's_Daughter|Peter's Daughter]]," that Lois abusing alcohol and smoking while pregnant with Chris and "chickening out half-way through" a clandestine abortion could also be a cause. Also, various story lines portrayed Chris as being well-endowed, upsetting Peter and has given him savant talents, such as artistic ability, and detailed knowledge of film and TV actors. Both he and Peter have also demonstrated proficiency in the use of [[American_Sign_Language|American Sign Language]]. He has also demonstrated an ability to quickly adapt to new cultural surroundings. For example, when the family moved to London in "[[Patriot_Games_(Family_Guy)|Patriot Games]]", Chris was the only member of the family who was able to quickly learn and speak [[cockney_English|cockney English]].

Chris has a turbulent brother-sister relationship with his sister Meg. Like his father Peter, Chris is normally disrespecting and abusive of Meg, often going to great lengths to bully her. However, they have often shown to get along and join forces on certain occasions, despite their general [[sibling_rivalry|sibling rivalry]].

Chris is usually depicted as naive to the point of blamelessness. However, when Peter and Lois were having a fist fight, Chris cheered for [[Peter_Griffin|Peter]], telling him to "kick her ass!"; earlier in the episode, after Chris breaks something and Lois tells Peter to punish Chris, Peter tells Chris to "punish himself" and subsequently [[Corporal_punishment|spanks]] himself. Also, in ''Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story'', when the children watch Lois and Peter are trying to make out, Chris mistakes it for a fight and says, "I don't know what they're fighting about, but I think Dad's winning. Go Dad!" In the episode "[[Trading_Places_(Family_Guy)|Trading Places]]", after Chris accidentally damages Peter's [[dirt_bike|dirt bike]], Peter "punishes" Chris by making him [[Tobacco_smoking|start smoking]].

Seth Green described Chris as "completely socially awkward", "very easily satisfied and highly distractible [.....] a simple, strong boy."<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.fancast.com/blogs/animation-celebration/seth-green-on-voicing-family-guys-chris-screening-robot-chicken-for-george-lucas/|title=Interview with Seth Green|work=Fancast News|date=2009-01-30|accessdate=2009-12-18|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20090201074042/http://www.fancast.com/blogs/animation-celebration/seth-green-on-voicing-family-guys-chris-screening-robot-chicken-for-george-lucas/|archive-date=2009-02-01|dead-url=yes}}</ref>

During the first half of the series while still being unpopular, Chris was shown to be the more popular at school than Meg, having countless friends including several girls and tending to mention having friends more often than Meg, though rarely being seen with them. However as the series progressed and Meg became more often seen with her group of friends, Chris' social status was stripped to the point of him being seemingly less socially accepted and rarely mentioning to have friends.{{episode|date=December 2013}} Although in [[Stew-Roids|Stew-Roids]], a popular girl dates Chris, at first to be more popular because of "dating a loser", but begins to like Chris after he says he really likes her. Later in the episode, she dumps him, because he made out with two girls at a party.

==Evil Monkey==
In a [[running_gag|running gag]], starting in the episode "[[Dammit_Janet!|Dammit Janet!]]," Chris is regularly tormented by an [[Evil_Monkey|evil monkey]] who lives in his closet, though whenever he complains about it to anyone, they don't believe him (a reference to the iconic tale of the [[Boy_Who_Cried_Wolf|Boy Who Cried Wolf]]) and often laugh him off instead, after which the monkey appears with a malevolent grimace and points at Chris in a threatening manner. However, in "[[Hannah_Banana|Hannah Banana]]", Chris finally manages to prove the monkey's part in the show to the family, and even ends up becoming friends with him after the monkey (who appears not to be evil at all, but just a poor creature who was depressed after his wife cheated with another monkey) helps him write out a book report and pass. The simian explains his frightening mannerisms as a result of various conditions and unintended actions. They hang out with each other in fun places, and the monkey helps Chris in his studies in school, which Peter does not do. This, however, causes a rift between Chris and Peter when Chris realizes that the monkey cares more for him than his father. Eventually the monkey helps the two patch things up, especially after Peter saves the monkey from [[Miley_Cyrus|Miley Cyrus]] (who is depicted as an [[android_(robot)|android]]) who had kidnapped him à la ''[[King_Kong_(2005_film)|King Kong]]''. After that, the monkey happily moves out of Chris' closet to live in the closet of Tom Tucker's son Jake, where the cycle will start in a new beginning, as Jake himself experiences difficulty with his father.

In a 2003 interview, Seth MacFarlane stated that the writers thought it would be funny to give Chris a childhood fear that is actually real, since he has "a childlike mind".<ref name="interview"/> The monkey's trademark grimace and pointing was the idea of writer [[Mike_Barker_(producer)|Mike Barker]].<ref name="interview">{{cite web|title=Seth MacFarlane Interview|url=http://www.tvshowsondvd.com/articles/seth.cfm|work=TVShowsOnDVD.com|date=2003-04-21|accessdate=2009-12-18}}</ref>

==Identification with Seth Green==
Another [[running_gag|running gag]], starting in the ''[[Star_Wars|Star Wars]]'' remake episode "[[Blue_Harvest_(Family_Guy)|Blue Harvest]]", has Chris defending ''[[Robot_Chicken|Robot Chicken]]'', a show created by portrayer Seth Green which is broadcast on the [[Adult_Swim|Adult Swim]] block on the [[Cartoon_Network|Cartoon Network]] cable network. When Peter (''Family Guy'' creator Seth MacFarlane) denigrates that show in "Blue Harvest", Chris loses his temper and storms off. Carried on in "[[Something,_Something,_Something,_Dark_Side|Something, Something, Something, Dark Side]]", though Chris attempts to keep a cool head, he storms off again when Peter offers to tell the story of ''[[Without_a_Paddle|Without a Paddle]]'', a critically panned film that features Seth Green. Both these scenes happen in the [[framing_device|framing device]] of the episode and not in the interior ''Star Wars'' narrative, in which Green portrays Chris as ''Star Wars'' hero [[Luke_Skywalker|Luke Skywalker]]. In the final ''Star Wars'' parody, "[[It's_a_Trap!|It's a Trap!]]", mocking Green's career provokes further anger in Chris; Chris tries to defend Green by citing ''[[Buffy_the_Vampire_Slayer_(TV_series)|Buffy the Vampire Slayer]]'' as an example of a success in Green's career, but Carter Pewterschmidt suggests that the popularity of ''Buffy'' had been largely over-stated by ''[[Entertainment_Weekly|Entertainment Weekly]]''. These taunts give Chris—in character as Skywalker—the conviction to fight back against Stewie/[[Darth_Vader|Darth Vader]] and Carter/[[Darth_Sidious|Darth Sidious]] (both played by MacFarlane). In the closing scenes of the episode's framing device, Chris gets to reverse the joke by poking fun at Seth MacFarlane's career, going so far as to suggest that ''Family Guy'' is a rip-off of ''[[The_Simpsons|The Simpsons]]''; MacFarlane is, however, defended by the characters whom he voices (Peter, Brian and Stewie).

Outside of the ''Star Wars''-themed episodes, "[[Road_to_the_Multiverse|Road to the Multiverse]]" plays on the running gag, but with Stewie (MacFarlane once more) provoking the ''[[Robot_Chicken|Robot Chicken]]'' Universe counterpart of Chris by asking "How does it feel to be on a major network for thirty seconds?" which prompts Chris to say "fuck you!".-->

==参考文献==
{{Reflist}}

==外部链接==
* [http://www.fox.com/familyguy/bios/chris-griffin/ Chris Griffin]{{Wayback|url=http://www.fox.com/familyguy/bios/chris-griffin/ |date=20120322210350 }} at Fox.com

{{Family Guy}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Griffin, Meg}}

[[Category:居家男人|Category:居家男人]]
[[Category:動畫中的青少年角色|Category:動畫中的青少年角色]]
[[Category:虚构爱尔兰裔美国人|Category:虚构爱尔兰裔美国人]]
[[Category:動漫中的男性美國人角色|Category:動漫中的男性美國人角色]]
[[Category:1999年面世的电视角色|Category:1999年面世的电视角色]]

[[sv:Family_Guy#Chris_Griffin|sv:Family Guy#Chris Griffin]]