'''電腦支援協作學習'''是指一個用電腦輔助[[協作學習|協作學習]]的研究主題。它跟[[電腦支援協作工作|電腦支援協作工作]]相關。其范围橫跨[[心理學|心理學]]、[[電腦科學|電腦科學]]與[[教育|教育]]。

CSCL 是一個主要的方法，結合[[協作學習|協作學習]]、[[合作學習|合作學習]]的優點，經由網路、電腦，使用遠距學習或同地點學習，在網路上或是電子化教室進行學習。CSCL 的目的是：支援學生有效率的共同學習。CSCL 支援學習者之間，意見與資訊的溝通；在學習活動中，協同存取資訊、文件以及授課者、同儕的回饋。CSCL 也支援、促進群組進行、動態活動，可以達到面對面溝通做不到的事情。(比如學習者可以對他們的溝通貼標籤。)

因為網路授課的需求劇增，教育者、授課設計者了解CSCL 的利益與限制是很重要的。就像很多教育活動，CSCL 活動也很難去評估它的效率、效果。早期的努力著重在[[電腦中介溝通|電腦中介溝通]]可能有害的效果，但忽略了電腦中介溝通潛在的利益。歷史上，科技創新在傳統課堂教室上，缺少足夠的證據，可以證明科技創新可以增強學習。

CSCL 研究主要的特色在於它多元的[[方法論|方法論]]：CSCL 研究者採用[[實驗法|實驗法]]、逼進法、談話分析、個案研究等。

== 相關資料 ==
* [[Educational_psychology|Educational psychology]]
* [[Fle3|Fle3 - Future Learning Environment]] - web-based learning environment for computer supported collaborative learning.
* [[CoFFEE|CoFFEE]] - [[face-to-face|Face to Face]] and computer mediated collaborative learning in the classroom.
* [[Opportunistic_collaboration|Opportunistic collaboration]]
* [[Group_cognition|Group cognition]]

== 外部連結 ==
* An introduction to CSCL is available in several languages: Stahl, G., Koschmann, T., & Suthers, D. (2006). "Computer-supported collaborative learning: An historical perspective". In R. K. Sawyer (Ed.), ''Cambridge handbook of the learning sciences'' (pp. 409-426). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. In [http://www.cis.drexel.edu/faculty/gerry/cscl/CSCL_English.pdf English]{{dead link|date=十一月 2017 |bot=InternetArchiveBot }},  [http://www.cis.drexel.edu/faculty/gerry/cscl/CSCL_Chinese_simplified.pdf simplified Chinese]{{dead link|date=2018年5月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}, [http://www.cis.drexel.edu/faculty/gerry/cscl/CSCL_Chinese_traditional.pdf traditional Chinese]{{dead link|date=2018年5月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}, [http://www.cis.drexel.edu/faculty/gerry/cscl/CSCL_Spanish.pdf Spanish]{{dead link|date=2018年5月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}, [https://web.archive.org/web/20070308112523/http://www.cis.drexel.edu/FACULTY/GERRY/CSCL/CSCL_PORTUGUESE.PDF Portuguese], [http://www.cis.drexel.edu/faculty/gerry/cscl/CSCL_German.pdf German]{{dead link|date=2018年5月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}, [http://www.cis.drexel.edu/faculty/gerry/cscl/CSCL_Romanian.pdf Romanian]{{dead link|date=2018年5月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}.

* [http://ijCSCL.org International Journal of Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning (ijCSCL)] is a peer-reviewed international journal of CSCL. It is published by Springer electronically and in print. Pre-publication versions of all articles are available for free at this site.

* The [http://ISLS.org International Society for the Learning Sciences (ISLS)] is a professional society. It sponsors bi-annual conferences on CSCL and on the Learning Sciences. It also sponsors the ijCSCL journal and the Journal of the Learning Sciences. Subscription to these journals is included in ISLS membership.

* The [http://lilt.ics.hawaii.edu/lilt/ Laboratory for Interactive Learning Technologies] is a computer supported collaborative learning laboratory at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. "LILT pursues a diverse portfolio of cognitive science, human-computer interaction, and social science approaches to technology-supported learning."

* The [https://web.archive.org/web/20091029163459/http://clp.cqu.edu.au/ Online Collaborative Learning in Higher Education] web site contains links to articles, books, conferences, and other resources related to CSCL.

* [https://web.archive.org/web/20080516043914/http://www.cis.drexel.edu/faculty/gerry/cscl/ Gerry Stahl's CSCL web page] contains links to articles, books, conferences, and other resources related to CSCL. It contains videos of several presentations at CSCL conferences.

* [https://web.archive.org/web/20081017171324/http://www.cis.drexel.edu/faculty/gerry/mit/ Group Cognition web page] contains a pre-publication version of a new book on CSCL -- "''Group Cognition: Computer Support for Building Collaborative Knowledge''" by Gerry Stahl, MIT Press, 2006.

*  [http://ikit.org/ CSILE], the first CSCL environment, and its second generation groupware: [[Knowledge_Forum|Knowledge Forum]]

*  [http://garnet.fsu.edu/~ajeong Allan Jeong's web page]{{dead link|date=2018年5月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }} contains links to empirical studies and software tools that use ''student labeled communications'' in CSCL to analyze, visualize, and identify sequential patterns in message-response exchanges (e.g., argument-challenge, challenge-explain) that trigger high level critical thinking and problem-solving.

* [http://www.lead2learning.org LEAD - CSCL in the digital classroom] Web site of a European research consortium developing CoFFEE, an open-source educational environment that supports and structures face to face and computer mediated classroom discussions: [[CoFFEE|CoFFEE]].

[[Category:教育心理學|Category:教育心理學]]
[[Category:協合|Category:協合]]

[[it:Collaborative_learning|it:Collaborative learning]]