'''冒险片'''（{{lang-en|adventure film}}）是[[电影|电影]][[片种|片种]]之一<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.allmovie.com/essays/adventure-films-26 |title=as a genre, the adventure film, also sometimes referred to as the "action-adventure" film, is one of the most uniformly popular and stable of categories |accessdate=2011-04-13 |deadurl=yes |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20110119223223/http://www.allmovie.com/essays/adventure-films-26 |archivedate=2011-01-19 }}</ref>。和[[动作片|动作片]]不同的是，冒险片的动作场景一般都是出现在充满活力的异国情调的地方<ref>{{Cite web |url = http://www.filmsite.org/adventurefilms.html |title = the viewer of adventure films can live vicariously through the travels, conquests, explorations, creation of empires, struggles and situations that confront the main characters, actual historical figures or protagonists. |accessdate = 2011-04-13 |archive-date = 2012-05-30 |archive-url = https://archive.today/20120530102930/http://www.filmsite.org/adventurefilms.html |dead-url = no }}</ref>。

冒险片包括[[海盗片|海盗片]]（{{lang-en|swashbuckler film}}）、[[灾难片|灾难片]]（{{lang-en|disaster film}}）、[[历史片|历史片]]（{{lang-en|historical fiction}}），类似[[史诗片|史诗片]]（{{lang-en|epic film}}）。主要情节元素是迷失的大陆、沙漠、丛林，人物去英勇寻宝或探险而展开未知旅程。题材来源于历史故事、传说、冒险英雄的事迹等。国王、战争、叛乱和海盗是常见的职业元素<ref name="#1">{{Cite web |url=http://www.filmsite.org/adventurefilms.html |title=adventurefilms |accessdate=2014-03-17 |archive-date=2012-05-30 |archive-url=https://archive.today/20120530102930/http://www.filmsite.org/adventurefilms.html |dead-url=no }}</ref>。冒险片同时也结合[[科幻片|科幻片]]（{{lang-en|science fiction}}）、[[奇幻片|奇幻片]]（{{lang-en|fantasy film}}）和[[战争片|战争片]]（{{lang-en|war film}}）的情节结构而出现。

== 沿革 ==
冒险片达到顶峰时期是在1930年代和1940年代的好莱坞，如著名的冒险片《[[侠盗罗宾汉|侠盗罗宾汉]]》、《[[佐罗的面具|佐罗的面具]]》、《[[船长血|船长血]]》，早期冒险片的角色主要是男性，主要表现他们英勇地抵抗镇压、反对暴君，慢慢地，冒险片加入了女性主角。<ref name="#1"/>

== 流行概念 ==
*争取正义和反对暴君。如《侠盗罗宾汉》、《佐罗的面具》、《[[星球大战|星球大战]]》。
*悬念和危险的境遇之下，主人公必须逃离。
*海盗。（如《[[加勒比海盗系列电影|加勒比海盗]]》系列电影）
*旅行或者追寻失落的古堡、城邦、宝藏。（如《[[印地安纳·琼斯|印地安纳·琼斯]]》系列、《[[九層妖塔|九層妖塔]]》）
*在过程中，主人公不断成长、成熟，发现并且掌握自己的命运。（如《星球大战》、《[[魔戒電影三部曲|指环王]]》）
*具有寓意的主题。（如《[[人猿星球|人猿星球]]》、《[[星际迷航|星际迷航]]》）

冒险片里还包括一些刻板的角色，某种情况下，观众和评论家认为这具有“隐蔽的种族主义”，如《[[魔宮傳奇|印第安纳·琼斯之魔宫传奇]]》、《[[第一滴血|第一滴血]]》和“詹姆斯·邦德系列电影”就被控“打压[[第三世界|第三世界]]人民”。<ref>[[Ken_Dancyger|Ken Dancyger]] (2007) and Jeff Rush ''Alternative scriptwriting'', Fourth edition. quote: <blockquote>Stereotypes abound in the adventure genre. Examples range from the mad scientist in ''Dr. No'' to the mindless thugs in ''Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom''. The racism implicit in the latter film and films such as ''First Blood'' are by-products of the stereotyping rampant in the adventure genre</blockquote></ref><ref>[[Thomas_Pynchon|Thomas Pynchon]] (1997) ''[[Slow_Learner|Slow Learner]]''. quote: "Modern readers will be, at least, put off by an unacceptable level of racist, sexist and proto-Fascist talk throughout this story [written in the 1950s]. I wish I could say that this is only Pig Bodine's voice, but, sad to say, it was also my own at the time. The best I can say for it now is that, for its time, it is probably authentic enough. John Kennedy's role model James Bond was about to make his name by kicking third-world people around, another extension of the boy's adventure tales a lot of us grew up reading. There had prevailed for a while a set of assumptions and distinctions, unvoiced and unquestioned, best captured years later in the '70's television character Archie Bunker."</ref>

==参考文献==
{{reflist}}

{{-}}
{{Film genres}}

{{Authority control}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Adventure Film}}
[[Category:电影类型|Category:电影类型]]
[[Category:冒险片|]]