{{noteTA
|T=zh-tw:雙頭鷹之死; zh-hk:雙頭鷹 (電影);
|G1=Movie
|G2=Show
|1=zh-tw:雙頭鷹之死; zh-hk:雙頭鷹;
|2=zh-tw:尚; zh-hk:尚; zh-cn:让;
|3=zh-tw:馬赫; zh-hk:馬利; zh-cn:马莱;
|4=zh-tw:考克多; zh-hk:高克; zh-cn:谷克多;
}}

{{Infobox film
| name           = 雙頭鷹之死
| original_name  = {{lang|fr|''L'Aigle à deux têtes''}}
| image          = L'Aigle à deux têtes 1948 screenshot - Jean Marais et Edwige Feuillère.jpg
| image_size     = 320px
| caption        = {{tsl|en|Edwige Feuillère|愛雲·佛耶荷}}和[[尚·馬赫|尚·馬赫]]，取自本片截圖
| director       = [[尚·考克多|尚·考克多]]
| producer       = {{tsl|en|Georges Dancigers|喬治·唐賽金}}<br/>{{tsl|en|Alexandre Mnouchkine|亞歷山大·莫虛金}}
| writer         = 尚·考克多
| narrator       = 
| starring       = {{tsl|en|Edwige Feuillère|愛雲·佛耶荷}}<br/>[[尚·馬赫|尚·馬赫]]<br/>{{tsl|en|Jean Debucourt|尚·德布庫}}<br/>{{tsl|en|Silvia Monfort|希薇雅·蒙福}}<br/>{{tsl|en|Jacques Varennes|賈克·范倫}}
| music          = [[喬治·奧尼克|喬治·奧尼克]]
| cinematography = {{tsl|en|Christian Matras (cinematographer)|克利斯汀·瑪特拉斯}}
| editing        = {{tsl|en|Raymond Leboursier|雷蒙·樂布希}}<br />Claude Ibéria
| distributor    = 
| released       = {{FRA}}：1948年9月22日<br />{{USA}}：1948年12月18日
| runtime        = 93分鐘
| country        = {{FRA}}
| language       = [[法語|法語]]
| budget         = 
| gross          = 
| preceded_by    = 
| followed_by    = 
| tw_name    = 雙頭鷹之死<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.books.com.tw/products/D020019597|title=世界電影大導演系列(27) Jean Cocteau尚.考克多(法國) DVD|access-date=2017-02-02|archive-date=2017-02-02|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170202065640/http://www.books.com.tw/products/D020019597|dead-url=no}} [[博客來|博客來]]</ref>
| hk_name    = 雙頭鷹<ref>{{cite web|url=http://playitagain.info/site/1979/eagle-has-two-heads-the/|title=EAGLE HAS TWO HEADS, THE 雙頭鷹}} [[香港外語電影資料網|香港外語電影資料網]]</ref>
}}
{{Portal box|電影|法國}}

《'''雙頭鷹之死'''》（[[法語|法語]]：{{lang|fr|''L'Aigle à deux têtes''}}）是一部由[[尚·考克多|尚·考克多]]導演的[[1948年電影|1948年]][[法國電影|法國電影]]，改編自考克多原創的{{tsl|en|L'Aigle à deux têtes|雙頭鷹 (舞臺劇)|同名舞臺劇}}，此劇曾於1946年演出。而舞台劇中的幾位主角飾演者全部於電影中再次出演相同角色。此劇靈感源自[[奧地利帝國|奧地利帝國]]的[[伊莉莎白皇后|伊莉莎白皇后]]<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.bampfa.berkeley.edu/event/laigle-%C3%A0-deux-t%C3%AAtes-two-headed-eagle|title=L'Aigle à Deux Têtes (The Two-Headed Eagle)|access-date=2017-02-02|archive-date=2017-02-13|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170213163910/http://www.bampfa.berkeley.edu/event/laigle-%C3%A0-deux-t%C3%AAtes-two-headed-eagle|dead-url=no}} BAMPFA</ref>（即-{[[茜茜公主|茜茜公主]]}-）。

== 演員表 ==
*{{tsl|en|Edwige Feuillère|愛雲·佛耶荷}} 飾 王后
*[[尚·馬赫|尚·馬赫]] 飾 史坦尼斯拿斯
*{{tsl|en|Silvia Monfort|希薇雅·蒙福}} 飾 艾蒂·貝格
*{{tsl|en|Jean Debucourt|尚·德布庫}} 飾 菲利士·韋倫斯坦
*{{tsl|en|Jacques Varennes|賈克·范倫}} 飾 佛恩伯爵
*{{tsl|fr|Yvonne de Bray|伊芳·布蕾}} 飾 女大公
*Ahmed Abdallah 飾 東尼

== 反響 ==
電影於1948年9月在[[巴黎|巴黎]]上映，法國影評對此片褒貶不一。評論認為電影豪華的品質和演員精彩的表演無疑是此片的亮點，<ref>E.g. Louis Chauvet, ''Le Figaro'', 26 August 1948, quoted in Claude-Jean Philippe, ''Jean Cocteau''. (Paris: Seghers, 1989) p.162: "Les personnages parlent une langue toujours belle, et mêmes leurs attitudes sont belles".</ref>然而也有人認為電影矯揉造作，彷彿來自另一個時代，且考克多並沒有從先前舞台劇的基礎上充分詮釋這部電影。<ref>André Bazin, ''Parisien'', 29 September 1948, quoted in Claude-Jean Philippe, ''Jean Cocteau''. (Paris: Seghers, 1989) p.160: "''L'Aigle à deux têtes'' laisse indifférent comme un motif décoratif habilement inspiré du style d'une autre époque".</ref><ref>Jean Néry, ''L'Écran français'', quoted in Claude-Jean Philippe, ''Jean Cocteau''. (Paris: Seghers, 1989) p.162: "Il n'a pas su (ou pas voulu) s'émanciper des disciplines théâtrales".</ref>

當影片於1948年在[[紐約|紐約]]及1949年在[[倫敦|倫敦]]上映後，來自《[[紐約時報|紐約時報]]》和《[[泰晤士報|泰晤士報]]》的影評都顯示出類似的褒貶混合式評價。<ref>Bosley Crowther, "L'Aigle à deux têtes", in ''New York Times'', 30 December 1948: "It sometimes helps if a reviewer has a faint idea of what a film he is reviewing is supposed to be about... Unfortunately, Mr Cocteau neglected to make it clear... Plenty of money and taste have plainly been spent on a handsome physical production. Hapsburg {{sic}} splendor is in the sets and the costumes which Miss Feuillere fills out are lovely and flattering. But they all add up to nothing."</ref><ref>''The Times'' (London), 10 November 1949, p.7, col.C: "The passion of Cocteau for history and for legend, his conception of illusion and reality, his preoccupations with death and doom, his romantic mysticism, so heavy and overcharged that it is difficult to remember that he is a French and not a Teutonic director - all these are indeed present in this new film, but fitfully, as it were, as inadequate exponents of the mood and the motive of the initial impulse. The play may have made things clearer...".</ref>相較考克多在20世紀40年代執導的其他影片，這部電影則受到較少關注。

== 參考資料 ==
{{reflist}}

== 外部連結 ==
*{{IMDb title|0039135|雙頭鷹之死}}
*{{Amg movie|90191|雙頭鷹之死}}
*{{bfidb title|129149|雙頭鷹之死}} {{en}}
*[http://filmsdefrance.com/FDF_L_aigle_a_deux_tetes_rev.html ''L'Aigle à deux têtes''] {{Wayback|url=http://filmsdefrance.com/FDF_L_aigle_a_deux_tetes_rev.html |date=20130708062714 }} at filmsdefrance.com {{en}}

[[Category:1948年法國電影作品|Category:1948年法國電影作品]]
[[Category:1940年代黑白电影|Category:1940年代黑白电影]]
[[Category:法語電影|Category:法語電影]]
[[Category:皇室成員相關電影|Category:皇室成員相關電影]]
[[Category:19世紀背景電影|Category:19世紀背景電影]]
[[Category:法国黑白电影|Category:法国黑白电影]]