'''《诗篇》第109篇''' （在[[通用希腊语|通用希腊语]]《[[七十士译本|七十士译本]]》中被列为'''第108篇'''）是《[[希伯来圣经|希伯来圣经]]·[[诗篇|诗篇]]》中的一篇，有31节。作者是[[大卫王|大卫王]]，交於伶長用。這诗篇是少數《诗篇》中記錄的詛咒。

第8节的“願他的年日短少，願別人得他的職分。”在[[使徒行傳|使徒行傳]]1:16-26，使徒們選出頂替[[加略人猶大|加略人猶大]]的人之前，被[[聖彼得|聖彼得]]引述。

因第8节的“職分”在英文─“office”─也可以代表官職，美國的[[基要派|基要派]]基督徒，包括政客如Michael O'Neal<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www2.ljworld.com/news/2012/jan/03/statehouse-live-speaker-oneal-forwards-anti-obama-/|title=Statehouse Live: Speaker O’Neal forwards anti-Obama email|date=2012-01-03|author=Scott Rothschild|publisher=[[Lawrence_Journal-World|Lawrence Journal-World]]|access-date=2016-07-01|archive-date=2020-10-29|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20201029143540/http://www2.ljworld.com/news/2012/jan/03/statehouse-live-speaker-oneal-forwards-anti-obama-/|dead-url=no}}</ref>和[[大衛·珀杜|大衛·珀杜]]<ref>{{cite news |URL=http://www.upi.com/Top_News/US/2016/06/10/Sen-David-Perdue-tells-faith-event-Pray-Obamas-days-are-few/2071465585306/?spt=hs&or=tn_us |title=Sen. David Perdue tells faith event: Pray Obama's 'days are few' |publisher=UPI |date=June 10, 2016 |accessdate=June 10, 2016 |archive-date=2021-01-20 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210120100837/https://www.upi.com/Top_News/US/2016/06/10/Sen-David-Perdue-tells-faith-event-Pray-Obamas-days-are-few/2071465585306/?spt=hs&or=tn_us |dead-url=no }}</ref>，常常用這诗篇來詛咒[[奧巴馬|奧巴馬]]。<ref>{{cite news |title=Fundamentalist preachers pray for death of foes |first=Ellen |last=Warren |newspaper=Spokesman-Review Spokane Chronicle |date=June 7, 1986 |at=A5|url=http://news.google.com/newspapers?id=2f4SAAAAIBAJ&sjid=Yu8DAAAAIBAJ&pg=6957,4924923}}</ref><ref>{{cite book |title=Evangelical Terrorism: Censorship, Falwell, Robertson & the Seamy Side of Christian Fundamentalism |last=Ide |first=Arthur Frederick |year=1986 |publisher=Scholars Books |location= |isbn=978-0-938659-01-3 |page=116 |pages= }}</ref><ref>{{cite news |title=Biblical anti-Obama slogan: Use of Psalm 109:8 funny or sinister? |first=Tracey D. |last=Samuelson |newspaper=[[Christian_Science_Monitor|Christian Science Monitor]] |date=November 16, 2009 |url=http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2009/1116/biblical-anti-obama-slogan-use-of-psalm-1098-funny-or-sinister? |accessdate=2016-07-01 |archive-date=2021-04-10 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210410160447/https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2009/1116/biblical-anti-obama-slogan-use-of-psalm-1098-funny-or-sinister |dead-url=no }}</ref><ref>{{cite news |title=Obama-haters are perverting Christianity |first=Tony |last=Norman |newspaper=Pittsburgh Post-Gazette |date=November 20, 2009 |url=http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/09324/1014951-153.stm |accessdate=2016-07-01 |archive-date=2011-06-04 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110604123517/http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/09324/1014951-153.stm |dead-url=no }}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/109th-psalm-obama-prayer-threat-free-speech-sheriffs/story?id=12538288|title=109th Psalm 'Obama Prayer': Threat or Free Speech?|publisher=[[ABC_News|ABC News]]|author=Devin Dwyer|date=2010-01-04|access-date=2016-07-01|archive-date=2021-02-23|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210223132023/https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/109th-psalm-obama-prayer-threat-free-speech-sheriffs/story?id=12538288|dead-url=no}}</ref>

<!--In the United States, 109:8 "May his days be few; may another take his place of leadership" has been used by a number of fundamentalist preachers who use the [[imprecatory_psalm|imprecatory psalm]] as an [[imprecatory_prayer|imprecatory prayer]].  Pastor Greg Dixon of the [[Indianapolis_Baptist_Temple|Indianapolis Baptist Temple]] had invoked it,	
In 2009, the media has reported more widely on its usage in reference to President [[Barack_Obama|Barack Obama]], by those such as Pastor [[Wiley_Drake|Wiley Drake]].
In January 2010, a Florida Sheriff's officer was suspended from his force for circling the passage in a bible and scrawling "The Obama Prayer" beside it.
In January 2012, Kansas Speaker of the House [[Michael_O'Neal|Michael O'Neal]] sent an email quoting Verse 8 to his Republican colleagues
On June 10, 2016, [[Georgia_(U.S._state)|Georgia]] [[United_States_Senate|Senator]] [[David_Perdue|David Perdue]]  quotes the verse, referencing President Obama, at the [[Faith_and_Freedom_Coalition|Faith and Freedom Coalition’s]] Road to Majority conference.
-->
== 译文 ==
=== 英语 ===
{{HideH|[[钦定版圣经|钦定版圣经]]}}
# Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise;
# For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.
# They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause.
# For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself unto prayer.
# And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
# Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand.
# When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin.
# Let his days be few; and let another take his office.
# Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.
# Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places.
# Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour.
# Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children.
# Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out.
# Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the Lord; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.
# Let them be before the Lord continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth.
# Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart.
# As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him.
# As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.
# Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually.
# Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from the Lord, and of them that speak evil against my soul.
# But do thou for me, O God the Lord, for thy name's sake: because thy mercy is good, deliver thou me.
# For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.
# I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust.
# My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of fatness.
# I became also a reproach unto them: when they looked upon me they shaked their heads.
# Help me, O Lord my God: O save me according to thy mercy:
# That they may know that this is thy hand; that thou, Lord, hast done it.
# Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice.
# Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.
# I will greatly praise the Lord with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude.
# For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul.
{{HideF}}

=== 汉语 ===
{{HideH|[[和合本|和合本]]}}
# 我所讚美的神啊，求你不要閉口不言。
# 因為惡人的嘴和詭詐人的口已經張開攻擊我；他們用撒謊的舌頭對我說話。
# 他們圍繞我，說怨恨的話，又無故地攻打我。
# 他們與我為敵以報我愛，但我專心祈禱。
# 他們向我以惡報善，以恨報愛。
# 願你派一個惡人轄制他，派一個對頭站在他右邊！
# 他受審判的時候，願他出來擔當罪名！願他的祈禱反成為罪！
# 願他的年日短少！願別人得他的職分！
# 願他的兒女為孤兒，他的妻子為寡婦 ！
# 願他的兒女漂流討飯，從他們荒涼之處出來求食！
# 願強暴的債主牢籠他一切所有的！願外人搶他勞碌得來的！
# 願無人向他延綿施恩！願無人可憐他的孤兒！
# 願他的後人斷絕，名字被塗抹，不傳於下代！
# 願他祖宗的罪孽被耶和華記念！願他母親的罪過不被塗抹 ！
# 願這些罪常在耶和華面前，使他的名號斷絕於世！
# 因為他不想施恩，卻逼迫困苦窮乏的和傷心的人，要把他們治死。
# 他愛咒罵，咒罵就臨到他；他不喜愛福樂，福樂就與他遠離！
# 他拿咒罵當衣服穿上；這咒罵就如水進他裡面，像油入他的骨頭。
# 願這咒罵當他遮身的衣服，當他常束的腰帶！
# 這就是我對頭和用惡言議論我的人從耶和華那裡所受的報應。
# 主 ─ 耶和華啊，求你為你的名恩待我；因你的慈愛美好，求你搭救我！
# 因為我困苦窮乏，內心受傷。
# 我如日影漸漸偏斜而去；我如蝗蟲被抖出來。
# 我因禁食，膝骨軟弱；我身上的肉也漸漸瘦了。
# 我受他們的羞辱，他們看見我便搖頭。
# 耶和華 ─ 我的神啊，求你幫助我，照你的慈愛拯救我，
# 使他們知道這是你的手，是你 ─ 耶和華所行的事。
# 任憑他們咒罵，惟願你賜福；他們幾時起來就必蒙羞，你的僕人卻要歡喜。
# 願我的對頭披戴羞辱！願他們以自己的羞愧為外袍遮身！
# 我要用口極力稱謝耶和華；我要在眾人中間讚美他；
# 因為他必站在窮乏人的右邊，要救他脫離審判他靈魂的人 。
{{HideF}}

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部链接 ==

== 参见 ==
[[Category:诗篇|#109]]
[[Category:希伯来圣经章节|Category:希伯来圣经章节]]