
{{Infobox scientist
| name              = 馬丁·愛德華·赫爾曼<br/>Martin Edward Hellman
| image             = Martin-Hellman.jpg
| image_size        = 255px
| alt               = 馬丁·愛德華·赫爾曼
| caption           = 馬丁·愛德華·赫爾曼
| birth_name        = 馬丁·愛德華·赫爾曼
| birth_date        = {{birth date and age|1945|10|2|mf=y}}
| birth_place       = [[美國|美國]][[紐約州|紐約州]][[紐約市|紐約市]]
| nationality       = [[美國|美國]]
| fields            = [[密碼學|密碼學]]<br />[[電腦科學|電腦科學]]<br />[[電子工程學|電子工程學]]
| workplaces        = [[史丹佛大學|史丹佛大學]]<br />[[麻省理工學院|麻省理工學院]]<br />[[IBM研究院|IBM研究院]]
| alma_mater        = [[紐約大學|紐約大學]] (學士, 1966)<br />[[史丹佛大學|史丹佛大學]] (碩士, 1967; 博士, 1969)
| thesis_title      = Learning with Finite Memory
| thesis_url        = http://www-ee.stanford.edu/%7Ehellman/publications/01.pdf
| thesis_year       = 1969
| doctoral_advisor  = {{link-en|湯瑪斯·M·科弗爾|Thomas M. Cover}}
| doctoral_students = [[瑞夫·墨克|瑞夫·墨克]] <br /> [[塔希爾·蓋莫爾|塔希爾·蓋莫爾]]
| known_for         = [[迪菲-赫爾曼密鑰交換|迪菲-赫爾曼密鑰交換]]
| awards            = {{link-en|IEEE百年獎章|IEEE Centennial Medal}} {{small|(1984)}} <br /> [[電子前哨基金會先鋒獎|電子前哨基金會先鋒獎]] {{small|(1994)}} <br /> {{link-en|Louis E. Levy 獎章|Louis E. Levy Medal}}{{small|(1997)}}<br />[http://www.itsoc.org/honors/golden-jubilee-awards-for-technological-innovation 技術創新金禧獎] {{small|(1998)}}<br />[[馬可尼獎|馬可尼獎]] {{small|(2000)}}<br /> [[美國國家工程院|美國國家工程院]] 院士 <small>(2002)</small> <br />[[IEEE理察·W·漢明獎章|IEEE理察·W·漢明獎章]] <small>(2010)</small> <br /> [[計算機歷史博物館|電腦歷史博物館]] 院士 <small>(2011)</small> <ref>[http://www.computerhistory.org/fellowawards/hall/bios/Martin,Hellman/ Martin Hellman 2011 Fellow] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20130509235730/http://www.computerhistory.org/fellowawards/hall/bios/Martin,Hellman/ |date=2013-05-09 }}</ref> <br />[[圖靈獎|圖靈獎]]<small> (2015)</small>
| website = {{URL|http://ee.stanford.edu/~hellman}}
}}
'''馬丁·愛德華·赫爾曼'''（{{lang-en|'''Martin Edward Hellman'''}}，{{bd|1945年|10月2日|||catIdx=Hellman, Martin}}），生於美國[[紐約市|紐約市]]，密碼學者，對[[公開密鑰加密|公開密鑰加密]]技術有重要貢獻。與[[惠特菲爾德·迪菲|惠特菲爾德·迪菲]]一同發展出[[迪菲－赫尔曼密钥交换|迪菲－赫尔曼密钥交换]]技術。獲得 2015 年[[圖靈獎|圖靈獎]]<ref>{{cite web|title=Cryptography Pioneers Receive ACM A.M. Turing Award|url=http://www.acm.org/media-center/2016/march/turing-award-2015|publisher=ACM|accessdate=2 March 2016}}</ref>。

==生平==
在大學主修主修[[電機工程|電機工程]]。1966年，在[[紐約大學|紐約大學]]取得學士學位。1967年，在[[史丹福大學|史丹福大學]]取得碩士學位，1969年取得電機工程博士。1968年至1969年間，在IBM華生研究中心（Thomas J. Watson Research Center）工作。1969年至1971年間，在[[麻省理工學院|麻省理工學院]]擔任助理教授。

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

==外部連結==
{{Commons category}}
*[http://purl.umn.edu/107353 Oral history interview with Martin Hellman] Oral history interview 2004, Palo Alto, California. [[Charles_Babbage_Institute|Charles Babbage Institute]], University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. Hellman describes his invention of [[public_key_cryptography|public key cryptography]] with collaborators [[Whitfield_Diffie|Whitfield Diffie]] and [[Ralph_Merkle|Ralph Merkle]] at Stanford University in the mid-1970s. He also relates his subsequent work in cryptography with [[Steve_Pohlig|Steve Pohlig]] (the [[Pohlig–Hellman_algorithm|Pohlig–Hellman algorithm]]) and others. Hellman addresses the [[National_Security_Agency|National Security Agency]]’s (NSA) early efforts to contain and discourage academic work in the field, the Department of Commerce’s encryption export restrictions (under the [[ITAR|International Traffic of Arms Regulation]], or ITAR), and key escrow (the so-called [[Clipper_chip|Clipper chip]]). He also touches on the commercialization of cryptography with [[RSA_Data_Security|RSA Data Security]] and [[VeriSign|VeriSign]].
*[http://nuclearrisk.org/ Martin Hellman's website on the risk of nuclear threat from nuclear war or nuclear terrorism]
*[http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/news/event?ID=1512 "Defusing the nuclear threat and making the world safer"] Announcement of Hellman presentation at U.C. Santa Cruz; Oct. 2008
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20090428195928/http://media.omediaweb.com/rsa2009/preview/webcast.htm?id=1_5 Hellman at the 2009 RSA conference], video with Hellman participating on the Cryptographer's Panel, April 21, 2009, Moscone Center, San Francisco
*{{YouTube|D1xnM3bbkCg|Soaring, Cryptography and Nuclear Weapons}}
 
{{-}}
{{图灵奖}}
{{IEEE理查德·W·汉明奖章获得者}}
{{Authority control}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Hellman, Martin}}
[[Category:现代密码学家|Category:现代密码学家]]
[[Category:美国密码学家|Category:美国密码学家]]
[[Category:图灵奖获得者|Category:图灵奖获得者]]
[[Category:美国国家工程院院士|Category:美国国家工程院院士]]
[[Category:麻省理工學院教師|Category:麻省理工學院教師]]
[[Category:IBM員工|Category:IBM員工]]
[[Category:紐約大學校友|Category:紐約大學校友]]
[[Category:史丹佛大學校友|Category:史丹佛大學校友]]
[[Category:IEEE理查德·W·汉明奖章获得者|Category:IEEE理查德·W·汉明奖章获得者]]