{{Infobox settlement|official_name=馬特萊 <br>{{small|මාතලේ <br> மாத்தளை}}|image_skyline=|image_flag=|image_seal=|image_map=|map_caption=|pushpin_map=Sri Lanka|settlement_type=[[鎮|鎮]]|subdivision_type=[[世界政區索引|國家]]|subdivision_name={{LKA}}|subdivision_type1=[[省_(行政區劃)|省]]|subdivision_name1=[[中央省_(斯里蘭卡)|中央省]]|subdivision_type2=[[區域|區]]|subdivision_name2=[[馬特萊區|馬特萊區]]|government_type=[[鎮政府|鎮政府]]|leader_title=[[市長|市長]]|leader_name=Daljith Aluwihare|leader_title1=|leader_name1=|area_magnitude=|area_urban_km2=25.65|area_total_sq_mi=|area_land_km2=|area_land_sq_mi=|area_water_km2=|area_water_sq_mi=|population_as_of=2016|population_urban=38,229 (Municipality)|population_metro=78,489 (Extended)|population_density_km2=1490|timezone=斯里蘭卡|utc_offset=+5:30|timezone_DST=|utc_offset_DST=+5:30|coordinates={{coord|7|28|7|N|80|37|22|E|region:LK|display=inline}}|elevation_m=364|postal_code_type=郵政編號|postal_code=21xxx|area_code=066|website=|footnotes=}}<span data-segmentid="94" class="cx-segment" id="cxmwCA" data-source="mwCA" data-cx-mt-provider="Yandex" data-cx-weight="0" style="min-height: 912px;" data-cx-draft="true" contenteditable="true" autocomplete="off"></span>'''馬特萊'''（[[僧伽罗语|僧伽罗语]]：මාතලේ，[[泰米尔语|泰米尔语]]：மாத்தளை）是[[斯里蘭卡|斯里蘭卡]][[中央省_(斯里蘭卡)|中央省]][[馬特萊區|馬特萊區]]的最大城鎮，距离首都[[科伦坡|科伦坡]]和[[康提|康提]]142公里。馬特萊的附近被[[指节山脉|指节山脉]]包圍，英国人把丘陵地带称为[[威爾特郡|威尔特郡]]。馬特萊是农业地区，茶叶、橡胶、蔬菜和香料占主导地位。

==歷史==
The [[Aluvihare_Rock_Temple|Aluvihare]] Temple, on the north side of the town, is the historic location where the [[Pali_Canon|Pali Canon]] was first written down completely in text on ola (palm) leaves in 29 BCE.

Matale was a site of a major battle in 1848 when the [[Matale_Rebellion|Matale Rebellion]] started and the British garrison in the [[Fort_MacDowall|Fort MacDowall]] in Matale was placed under siege by the rebels led by [[Puran_Appu|Weera Puran Appu]] and [[Gongalegoda_Banda|Gongalegoda Banda]] who are considered as national heroes in Sri Lanka.

This historical city was also home to Monarawila Keppetipola, another national hero who led the Wellasa rebellion against the British troops. His ancestral home, the Kappetipola walawuwa is still present at Hulangamuwa, Matale.

Christ Church, Matale was consecrated by Bishop James Chapman on 30 December 1860.

The church site chosen was Fort McDowall, commanding a view of the entrance to Matale via [[Trincomalee|Trincomalee]].  The church having been erected and furnished, the Revd William Frederick Kelly, Minister and Chaplain in Matale, and 36 others sent their petition to the Rt Revd James Chapman, D.D., to dedicate and consecrate Christ Church.  The parsonage was opened on 16 August 1862.  The 75th Anniversary was celebrated in 1935.  The centenary was celebrated on 28 and 29 January 1961.  The 125th Anniversary was celebrated on 6 September 1986.  The church was gutted by fire in 1985 and was completely restored. Services were held in the Baptist Church in the interim period.

On 22 June 1911, there was a special service held in this church in connection with the Coronation of His Majesty King George V, and Queen Mary.  The offertory on that was given to the King Edward VIII.<ref>Anti Tuberculosis Fund.  (Ref. Ceylon Churchman  Report for the year ending 20 June 1911)</ref>

The 150th Anniversary was celebrated on 2 October 2010.

Matale is the only district of Sri Lanka, with a book of [[recorded_history|written history]].{{Citation needed|date=November 2015}} The book is known as ''Aithihaasika matale - ඓතිහාසික මාතලේ ("ancient Matale" in English).

==著名景點==
* Anagarika Dharmapala monument
* [[Aluvihare_Rock_Temple|Aluvihare Rock Temple]]
* [[Christ_Church,_Matale|Christ Church, Matale]]
* [[Fort_MacDowall|Fort MacDowall]]
* Nandamithra Ekanayake International Hockey Ground
* [[Matale_Sri_Muthumariyamman_Temple|Matale Sri Muthumariyamman Temple]]
* Old Clock Tower
* Old Railway Station, the former terminus of the Colombo railway (completed in 1880)
* Weera Puranappu Monument 
* Weera Monarawila Keppetipola Monument

== 教育 ==
公立及私立學校：   
* Ahmed Rahman Memorial High School
* Amina Girls' National School, Matale<ref name=Schoollist>{{cite web|title=List of government schools - (as at March 1, 2016)|url=http://www.education.gov.lk/english/images/Statistics/Govt_sch_2016.pdf|publisher=Sri Lanka Ministry of Education|page=39|date=1 March 2016|accessdate=20 August 2017}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.moe.gov.lk/english/images/subject_related/Bilingual_Education/school_lists/central.pdf|title=Schools Having Bilingual Education Programme|publisher=[[Ministry_of_Education_(Sri_Lanka)|Sri Lanka Ministry of Education]]|accessdate=31 May 2017}}</ref>
* Cambridge International School, Matale
* [[Christ_Church_College,_Matale|Christ Church College, Matale]]
* [[Government_Science_College,_Matale|Government Science College, Matale]]
* Greenwood College International, Matale
* [[Hindu_National_College,_Matale|Hindu National College, Matale]]
* Ismaliya Muslim Mahavidyala, Matale
* Matale International School
* [[Pakkiyam_Girl's_College,_Matale|Pakkiyam Girl's College, Matale]]
* Royal English School
* [[St._Thomas'_College,_Matale|St Thomas' Boy's College, Matale]]
* [[St_Thomas'_Girl's_College,_Matale|St Thomas' Girl's College, Matale]]
* [[Sirimavo_Bandaranayake_College,_Matale|Sirimavo Bandaranayake College, Matale]]
* [[Sri_Sangamitta_Balika_National_School,_Matale|Sri Sangamitta Balika National School, Matale]]
* [[Vijaya_College,_Matale|Vijaya College, Matale]]
* [[Vijayapala_College,_Matale|Vijayapala College, Matale]]
* [[Zahira_College,_Matale|Zahira College, Matale]]

==圖庫==
<gallery>
File:Matale aluviharaya.jpg|{{Le|Aluvihare岩石寺|Aluvihare Rock Temple}}
File:Temple in Matale.JPG|{{Le|馬特萊的印度教寺廟|Sri Muthumariamman Temple, Matale}}
File:Matale1848-0746.JPG|{{Le|馬特萊叛亂|Matale rebellion}}紀念碑
</gallery>

== 參見 ==
*[[馬特萊區|馬特萊區]]
*[[斯里蘭卡交通|斯里蘭卡交通]]

== 參考資料 ==
<references/>

== 外部鏈結 ==
{{Commonscat}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20110713184027/http://discover.lankanest.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=94&Itemid=77.html%2F 探索斯里蘭卡－馬特萊的資訊和圖片]
* [http://www.aluvihara.virusinc.org/ Aluvihara岩石寺的官方網站]
* [http://www.knucklesrange.org/ 指节山脉自然保護區中心]
* [http://www.matalesmt.org/ 馬特萊印度教寺廟的官方網站]

[[Category:Matale|Category:Matale]]
[[Category:Kingdom_of_Kandy|Category:Kingdom of Kandy]]


[[Category:斯里蘭卡城市|Category:斯里蘭卡城市]]