{{Infobox website
| name = HotBot
| logo = Hotbot logo.png
| logo_size = 200px
| caption = 2011的HotBot标志
| language = [[英语|英语]]
| type = [[网络搜索引擎|网络搜索引擎]]
| owner = [[科思|科思]]([[Lycos|Lycos]])
| launch_date = {{start date and age|1996|5}}
| alexa = {{IncreaseNegative}} 124,967 ({{as of|2016|2|6|alt=2016年2月}})<ref name="alexa">{{cite web |url= http://www.alexa.com/siteinfo/hotbot.com |title= Hotbot.com Site Info |publisher= [[Alexa_Internet|Alexa Internet]] |accessdate= 2016-02-06 |archive-date= 2016-03-05 |archive-url= https://web.archive.org/web/20160305030626/http://www.alexa.com/siteinfo/hotbot.com |dead-url= no }}</ref><!--Updated monthly by OKBot.-->
| current_status = 活跃
| url = [http://www.hotbot.com/ HotBot.com]
}}

'''HotBot'''是一个由[[科思|科思]]（[[Lycos|Lycos]]）研发的[[网络搜索引擎|网络搜索引擎]]。它于1996年5月推出。

==历史==

===早年===
HotBot became a popular tool with search results served by the [[Inktomi_(company)|Inktomi]] database and directory results provided originally by [[LookSmart|LookSmart]] and then [[DMOZ|DMOZ]] since mid-1999. Hotbot also used search data from Direct Hit for a period, which was a tool that used click-through data to manipulate results. It was launched using a "new links" strategy of marketing, claiming to update its search database more often than its competitors. It also offered free webpage hosting, but only for a short time, and it was taken down without any notice to its users. It was one of the first search engines to offer the ability to search within search results.

===收购和经济衰退===
[[Lycos|Lycos]] acquired HotBot in 1998 and for a number of years HotBot languished with limited development and falling market share. At the end of 2002 HotBot was relaunched as a multiple option search tool, giving users the option to search either the [[Fast_Search_&_Transfer|FAST]], [[Google|Google]], [[Inktomi_(company)|Inktomi]] or [[Teoma|Teoma]] databases.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.websearchworkshop.co.uk/hotbot_history.php |title=HotBot: A brief history of the HotBot search engine |access-date=2016-04-26 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160602082212/http://www.websearchworkshop.co.uk/hotbot_history.php |archive-date=2016-06-02 |dead-url=yes }}</ref>

===20世纪90年代===
Up to 2011, the HotBot website was merely a [[Front_and_back_ends|front end]] for three third-party search engines ([[Yahoo.com|Yahoo.com]], [[MSN_Search|MSN]], and lyGo.com). The site still had an outdated classic design{{according to whom?|date=January 2014}}, and to search with HotBot, one had to click on which search engine of these three to use.

===重新开张===
In July 2011, HotBot was relaunched with a new robot-like mascot, a new logo, and a modern site design. In the beta, HotBot became a portal, returning not just web search results, but also searches from various Lycos websites, such as News, Shopping and [[Weather_Zombie|Weather Zombie]]. The portal interface lasted for roughly 6 months, and these features were instead reincorporated into the 2012 Lycos website redesign, returning HotBot to a simplified search interface.

==工具欄==
早在2004年，Lycos推出了免費的搜索產品工具欄的測試版,[[DeskTop|DeskTop]]。該公司說这是“第一個整合瀏覽器中的Web搜索與傳統的桌面搜索的產品。" 在HotBot的DeskTop可以搜索使用了[[Inktomi|Inktomi]]的互聯網, e-mail folders for [[Microsoft_Outlook|Microsoft Outlook]] or [[Outlook_Express|Outlook Express]], and user documents stored on a hard drive. It also incorporated a blocker for pop-up ads and an RSS News Reader syndication. Indexes created to track e-mail and user files remained stored locally to protect user privacy. Text-based ads were displayed when viewing results for several types of Internet searches. Lycos licensed [[DtSearch_Corp.|dtSearch]] technology to power the local search options.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://newsbreaks.infotoday.com/nbreader.asp?ArticleID=16488 |title=Lycos HotBot Offers Free DeskTop Toolbar - March, 2004 |accessdate=2016-04-26 |archive-date=2016-03-04 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160304120613/http://newsbreaks.infotoday.com/nbreader.asp?ArticleID=16488 |dead-url=no }}</ref>

==参考==
<references/>

==外部链接==
*[http://www.hotbot.com/ HotBot]{{Wayback|url=http://www.hotbot.com/ |date=20160426164448 }}


[[Category:網路搜尋引擎|Category:網路搜尋引擎]]
[[Category:1996年建立的网站|Category:1996年建立的网站]]