{{translating|[[:en:Performance-enhancing_substance|:en:Performance-enhancing substance]]||tpercent=|time=2020-10-25UTC15:00:47}}
{{Request translation|en|}}

'''表現增強物質'''(Performance-enhancing substances)，也稱為'''表現增強藥物'''（performance-enhancing drugs,縮寫為PED），<ref>{{Cite web | url=http://www.usada.org/substances/effects-of-performance-enhancing-drugs/ | title=Effects of Performance-Enhancing Drugs | USADA | access-date=2020-10-30 | archive-date=2015-09-22 | archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150922195421/http://www.usada.org/substances/effects-of-performance-enhancing-drugs/ | dead-url=no }}</ref>是用於改善人類任何形式的活動表現的物質。一個著名的例子是在體育運動中使用的藥物，運動員和健美運動員可能使用被體育界禁用的藥物。運動員在服食後因體能的增強，能顯著提升表現，但由於副作用巨大，因此是被禁止使用的。然而，由於現代生物醫學科技一日千里，藥物推陳出新，要完全杜絕難度極高，因此國際組織會將運動員的尿液樣本一直保存，並隨時翻驗。有時，學生會使用認知增強藥物（俗稱[[聰明藥|聰明藥]]）<ref name="Smart drugs" />來提高學習成績。軍事人員也會使用增強表現的物質來增強戰鬥力。<ref>[https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/8848246 Anon. Better Fighting Through Chemistry? The Role of FDA Regulation in Crafting the Warrior of the Future.] {{Wayback|url=https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/8848246 |date=20190608084113 }} Food and Drug Law: Final Paper. March 8, 2004.</ref>

表現增強藥物的使用涵蓋合法使用和[[藥物濫用|藥物濫用]]的類別。

==定義==
物質作為提高性能的物質的分類並不完全明確和客觀。與其他類型的分類一樣，某些原型性能增強劑也被普遍分類（例如合成代謝類固醇），而其他物質（例如[[維生素|維生素]]和[[蛋白質補充劑|蛋白質補充劑]]）儘管對性能有影響，但實際上從未被分類為性能增強劑。與分類一樣，存在臨界情況。例如，[[咖啡因|咖啡因]]被某些人（而非所有人）視為性能增強劑。<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.vanderbilt.edu/AnS/psychology/health_psychology/caffeine_sports.htm |title=Caffeine and Sports Performance |publisher=Vanderbilt.edu |date= |accessdate=2012-03-04 |archive-date=2012-02-29 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120229060541/http://www.vanderbilt.edu/AnS/psychology/health_psychology/caffeine_sports.htm |dead-url=no }}</ref>

==類型==
*'''[[合成代謝|合成代謝]]藥物'''可以增強肌肉，例如[[類固醇|類固醇]]<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/anabolic-steroid-abuse/what-are-anabolic-steroids |title=What are anabolic steroids? |date=August 2006 |accessdate=2016-04-11 |publisher=National Institute on Drug Abuse |archive-date=2018-02-20 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20180220083228/https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/anabolic-steroid-abuse/what-are-anabolic-steroids |dead-url=no }}</ref>、[[賀爾蒙|賀爾蒙]]（最著名的是[[生長激素|生長激素]]）及其某些前藥<ref>{{cite web|last=McKelvey Martin|first=Valerie|title=Drugs in Sport|url=http://www.ulster.ac.uk/scienceinsociety/drugsinsport.html|accessdate=15 April 2013|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20130415054356/http://www.ulster.ac.uk/scienceinsociety/drugsinsport.html|archive-date=2013-04-15|url-status=yes}}</ref>、[[選擇性雄激素受體調節劑|選擇性雄激素受體調節劑]]<ref name="pmid19432422">{{cite journal |vauthors=Mohler ML, Bohl CE, Jones A, Coss CC, Narayanan R, He Y, Hwang DJ, Dalton JT, Miller DD |title=Nonsteroidal selective androgen receptor modulators (SARMs): dissociating the anabolic and androgenic activities of the androgen receptor for therapeutic benefit |journal=Journal of Medicinal Chemistry |volume=52 |issue=12 |pages=3597–617 |date=June 2009 |pmid=19432422 |doi=10.1021/jm900280m |url=}}</ref>和[[β-2激動劑|β-2激動劑]]。<ref>Drug Enforcement Administration. November 2013 [http://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/drug_chem_info/clenbuterol.pdf Clenbuterol] {{Wayback|url=http://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/drug_chem_info/clenbuterol.pdf |date=20191017084433 }}</ref><ref>{{cite journal | pmid = 21142283 | doi=10.2165/11537540-000000000-00000 | volume=41 | issue=1 | title=β₂-Agonists and physical performance: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials | date=January 2011 | journal=Sports Med | pages=39–57 | vauthors=Pluim BM, de Hon O, Staal JB ''et al''}}</ref>

*'''[[興奮劑|興奮劑]]'''可提高注意力和機敏性。低（治療）劑量的[[多巴胺類|多巴胺類]]興奮劑（例如[[再攝取抑制劑|再攝取抑制劑]]和單胺釋放劑）還分別通過改善肌肉強度和耐力同時減少[[反應時間|反應時間]]和疲勞來促進認知和運動表現，分別作為[[聰明藥|聰明藥]]和增效劑；<ref name="Ergogenics" /><ref name="Ergogenics2" /><ref name="Amph-DA reaction time" />一些可以提高運動成績的興奮劑包括[[咖啡因|咖啡因]]<ref name="Peripheral and central ergogenic effects">{{cite journal | vauthors = Pesta DH, Angadi SS, Burtscher M, Roberts CK | title = The effects of caffeine, nicotine, ethanol, and tetrahydrocannabinol on exercise performance | journal = Nutr Metab (Lond) | volume = 10 | issue = 1 | pages = 71 | year = 2013 | pmid = 24330705 | pmc = 3878772 | doi = 10.1186/1743-7075-10-71 | quote = Caffeine-induced increases in performance have been observed in aerobic as well as anaerobic sports (for reviews, see [26,30,31]). Trained athletes seem to benefit from a moderate dose of 5 mg/kg [32], however, even lower doses of caffeine (1.0–2.0 mg/kg) may improve performance [33]. Some groups found significantly improved time trial performance [34] or maximal cycling power [35], most likely related to a greater reliance on fat metabolism and decreased neuromuscular fatigue, respectively. Theophylline, a metabolite of caffeine, seems to be even more effective in doing so [36]. The effect of caffeine on fat oxidation, however, may only be significant during lower exercise intensities and may be blocked at higher intensities [37]. ... For both caffeine-naïve as well as caffeine-habituated subjects, moderate to high doses of caffeine are ergogenic during prolonged moderate intensity exercise [61]. ... In summary, caffeine, even at physiological doses (3–6 mg/kg), as well as coffee are proven ergogenic aids and as such – in most exercise situations, especially in endurance-type events – clearly work-enhancing [26]. It most likely has a peripheral effect targeting skeletal muscle metabolism as well as a central effect targeting the brain to enhance performance, especially during endurance events (see Table 1). Also for anaerobic tasks, the effect of caffeine on the CNS might be most relevant. ... Muendel et al. [93] found a 17% improvement in time to exhaustion after nicotine patch application compared to a placebo without affecting cardiovascular and respiratory parameters or substrate metabolism. In this sense, nicotine seems to exert similar effects as caffeine by delaying the development of central fatigue as impaired central drive is an important factor contributing to fatigue during exercise. ... The physiological effects of the above mentioned substances are well established. However, the ergogenic effect of some of the discussed drugs may be questioned and one has to consider the cohort tested for every specific substance. However, only caffeine has enough strength of evidence to be considered an ergogenic aid.}}</ref>、[[麻黃鹼|麻黃鹼]]、[[派醋甲酯|派醋甲酯]]和[[苯丙胺|苯丙胺]]。<ref name="Ergogenics">{{cite journal |vauthors=Liddle DG, Connor DJ | title = Nutritional supplements and ergogenic Aids | journal = Prim. Care | volume = 40 | issue = 2 | pages = 487–505 |date=June 2013 | pmid = 23668655 | doi = 10.1016/j.pop.2013.02.009 |quote= Amphetamines and caffeine are stimulants that increase alertness, improve focus, decrease reaction time, and delay fatigue, allowing for an increased intensity and duration of training ...<br />Physiologic and performance effects [of amphetamines]<br />{{•}}Amphetamines increase dopamine/norepinephrine release and inhibit their reuptake, leading to central nervous system (CNS) stimulation<br />{{•}}Amphetamines seem to enhance athletic performance in anaerobic conditions 39 40<br />{{•}}Improved reaction time<br />{{•}}Increased muscle strength and delayed muscle fatigue<br />{{•}}Increased acceleration<br />{{•}}Increased alertness and attention to task}}</ref><ref name="Ergogenics2">{{cite journal |author=Parr JW |title=Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and the athlete: new advances and understanding |journal=Clin. Sports Med. |volume=30 |issue=3 |pages=591–610 |date=July 2011 |pmid=21658550 |doi=10.1016/j.csm.2011.03.007 |quote=In 1980, Chandler and Blair<sup>47</sup> showed significant increases in knee extension strength, acceleration, anaerobic capacity, time to exhaustion during exercise, pre-exercise and maximum heart rates, and time to exhaustion during maximal oxygen consumption (VO2 max) testing after administration of 15 mg of dextroamphetamine versus placebo. Most of the information to answer this question has been obtained in the past decade through studies of fatigue rather than an attempt to systematically investigate the effect of ADHD drugs on exercise. ... In 2008, Roelands and colleagues<sup>53</sup> studied the effect of reboxetine, a pure NE reuptake inhibitor, similar to atomoxetine, in 9 healthy, well-trained cyclists. They too exercised in both temperate and warm environments. They showed decreased power output and exercise performance at both 18 and 30 degrees centigrade. Their conclusion was that DA reuptake inhibition was the cause of the increased exercise performance seen with drugs that affect both DA and NE (MPH, amphetamine, and bupropion).}}</ref><ref name="Amph-DA reaction time">{{cite journal |vauthors=Parker KL, Lamichhane D, Caetano MS, Narayanan NS | title = Executive dysfunction in Parkinson's disease and timing deficits | journal = Front. Integr. Neurosci. | volume = 7 | page = 75 | date = October 2013 | pmid = 24198770 | pmc = 3813949 | doi = 10.3389/fnint.2013.00075 | quote = Manipulations of dopaminergic signaling profoundly influence interval timing, leading to the hypothesis that dopamine influences internal pacemaker, or “clock,” activity. For instance, amphetamine, which increases concentrations of dopamine at the synaptic cleft advances the start of responding during interval timing, whereas antagonists of D2 type dopamine receptors typically slow timing;... Depletion of dopamine in healthy volunteers impairs timing, while amphetamine releases synaptic dopamine and speeds up timing. }}</ref><ref name="Roelands_2013">{{cite journal |vauthors=Roelands B, de Koning J, Foster C, Hettinga F, Meeusen R | title = Neurophysiological determinants of theoretical concepts and mechanisms involved in pacing | journal = Sports Med. | volume = 43 | issue = 5 | pages = 301–311 |date=May 2013 | pmid = 23456493 | doi = 10.1007/s40279-013-0030-4 }}</ref><ref name="Central mechanisms affecting exertion">{{cite journal | vauthors = Rattray B, Argus C, Martin K, Northey J, Driller M | title = Is it time to turn our attention toward central mechanisms for post-exertional recovery strategies and performance? | journal = Front. Physiol. | volume = 6 | issue = | pages = 79 | date = March 2015 | pmid = 25852568 | pmc = 4362407 | doi = 10.3389/fphys.2015.00079 | quote = Aside from accounting for the reduced performance of mentally fatigued participants, this model rationalizes the reduced RPE and hence improved cycling time trial performance of athletes using a glucose mouthwash (Chambers et al., 2009) and the greater power output during a RPE matched cycling time trial following amphetamine ingestion (Swart, 2009). ... Dopamine stimulating drugs are known to enhance aspects of exercise performance (Roelands et al., 2008)}}</ref>

*'''運動表現增強藥物'''包括許多對身體成績有各種影響的藥物。[[苯丙胺|苯丙胺]]和[[哌醋甲酯|哌醋甲酯]]等藥物可在恆定的感知勞累水平下增加功率輸出並延遲疲勞發作<ref name="Roelands_2013" /><ref name="Central mechanisms affecting exertion"/><ref name="Monoamine+drug effects on exercise - fatigue and heat">{{cite journal | vauthors = Roelands B, De Pauw K, Meeusen R | title = Neurophysiological effects of exercise in the heat | journal = Scand. J. Med. Sci. Sports | volume = 25 Suppl 1 | issue = | pages = 65–78 | date = June 2015 | pmid = 25943657 | doi = 10.1111/sms.12350 | quote =  Physical fatigue has classically been attributed to peripheral factors within the muscle (Fitts, 1996), the depletion of muscle glycogen (Bergstrom & Hultman, 1967) or increased cardiovascular, metabolic, and thermoregulatory strain (Abbiss & Laursen, 2005; Meeusen et al., 2006b). In recent decennia however, it became clear that the central nervous system plays an important role in the onset of fatigue during prolonged exercise (Klass et al., 2008), certainly when ambient temperature is increased ... 5-HT, DA, and NA have all been implicated in the control of thermoregulation and are thought to mediate thermoregulatory responses, certainly since their neurons innervate the hypothalamus (Roelands & Meeusen, 2010). ... This indicates that subjects did not feel they were producing more power and consequently more heat. The authors concluded that the “safety switch” or the mechanisms existing in the body to prevent harmful effects are overridden by the drug administration (Roelands et al., 2008b). Taken together, these data indicate strong ergogenic effects of an increased DA concentration in the brain, without any change in the perception of effort. ... The combined effects of DA and NA on performance in the heat were studied by our research group on a number of occasions. ... the administration of bupropion (DA/NA reuptake inhibitor) significantly improved performance. Coinciding with this ergogenic effect, the authors observed core temperatures that were much higher compared with the placebo situation. Interestingly, this occurred without any change in the subjective feelings of thermal sensation or perceived exertion. Similar to the methylphenidate study (Roelands et al., 2008b), bupropion may dampen or override inhibitory signals arising from the central nervous system to cease exercise because of hyperthermia, and enable an individual to continue maintaining a high power output}}</ref>，除其他運動表現增強效果外<ref name="Ergogenics" /><ref name="Ergogenics2" /><ref name="Amph-DA reaction time" />，[[安非他酮|安非他酮]]還可以在恆定的感知勞累水平上增加功率輸出，但僅限於短期使用<ref name="Monoamine+drug effects on exercise - fatigue and heat" />。[[肌酸|肌酸]]是運動員常用的[[營養補充品|營養補充品]]，可增加高強度運動能力。<ref name="pmid17908288">{{cite journal | vauthors = Buford TW, Kreider RB, Stout JR, Greenwood M, Campbell B, Spano M, Ziegenfuss T, Lopez H, Landis J, Antonio J | title = International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: creatine supplementation and exercise | journal = J Int Soc Sports Nutr | volume = 4 | issue = | pages = 6 | year = 2007 | pmid = 17908288 | pmc = 2048496 | doi = 10.1186/1550-2783-4-6 | url = }}</ref>

*'''人類[[生物分子|生物分子]]''' - [[肌酸|肌酸]]和[[β-羥基-β-甲基丁酸|β-羥基-β-甲基丁酸]]是人類中天然存在的化合物，在補充時對身體組成有影響。<ref name="PEDs in sports review">{{cite journal | vauthors = Momaya A, Fawal M, Estes R | title = Performance-enhancing substances in sports: a review of the literature | journal = Sports Med. | volume = 45 | issue = 4 | pages = 517–531 | date = April 2015 | pmid = 25663250 | doi = 10.1007/s40279-015-0308-9 | quote = }}</ref>

*'''[[聰明藥|聰明藥]]'''或“認知增強劑”通過改善[[記憶力|記憶力]]而有益於整體認知（例如，增加工作內存容量或進行更新）或認知控制的其他方面（例如[[抑制控制|抑制控制]]、[[注意力控制|注意力控制]]、[[注意長度|注意長度]]等）。<ref name="Smart drugs">{{cite journal | vauthors = Frati P, Kyriakou C, Del Rio A, Marinelli E, Vergallo GM, Zaami S, Busardò FP | title = Smart drugs and synthetic androgens for cognitive and physical enhancement: revolving doors of cosmetic neurology | journal = Curr Neuropharmacol | volume = 13 | issue = 1 | pages = 5–11 | date = January 2015 | pmid = 26074739 | pmc = 4462043 | doi = 10.2174/1570159X13666141210221750 | quote = Cognitive enhancement can be defined as the use of drugs and/or other means with the aim to improve the cognitive functions of healthy subjects in particular memory, attention, creativity and intelligence in the absence of any medical indication. ... The first aim of this paper was to review current trends in the misuse of smart drugs (also known as Nootropics) presently available on the market focusing in detail on methylphenidate, trying to evaluate the potential risk in healthy individuals, especially teenagers and young adults.}}</ref><ref name="Cognitive and motivational effects">{{cite journal | vauthors = Ilieva IP, Hook CJ, Farah MJ | title = Prescription Stimulants' Effects on Healthy Inhibitory Control, Working Memory, and Episodic Memory: A Meta-analysis | journal = J. Cogn. Neurosci. | volume = 27 | issue = 6 | pages = 1069–89 | date = January 2015 | pmid = 25591060 | doi = 10.1162/jocn_a_00776 | quote = The present meta-analysis was conducted to estimate the magnitude of the effects of methylphenidate and amphetamine on cognitive functions central to academic and occupational functioning, including inhibitory control, working memory, short-term episodic memory, and delayed episodic memory. In addition, we examined the evidence for publication bias. Forty-eight studies (total of 1,409 participants) were included in the analyses. We found evidence for small but significant stimulant enhancement effects on inhibitory control and short-term episodic memory. Small effects on working memory reached significance, based on one of our two analytical approaches. Effects on delayed episodic memory were medium in size. However, because the effects on long-term and working memory were qualified by evidence for publication bias, we conclude that the effect of amphetamine and methylphenidate on the examined facets of healthy cognition is probably modest overall. In some situations, a small advantage may be valuable, although it is also possible that healthy users resort to stimulants to enhance their energy and motivation more than their cognition. ... Earlier research has failed to distinguish whether stimulants’ effects are small or whether they are nonexistent (Ilieva et al., 2013; Smith & Farah, 2011). The present findings supported generally small effects of amphetamine and methylphenidate on executive function and memory. Specifically, in a set of experiments limited to high-quality designs, we found significant enhancement of several cognitive abilities. ...<br /><br /> The results of this meta-analysis cannot address the important issues of individual differences in stimulant effects or the role of motivational enhancement in helping perform academic or occupational tasks. However, they do confirm the reality of cognitive enhancing effects for normal healthy adults in general, while also indicating that these effects are modest in size. | url = https://repository.upenn.edu/neuroethics_pubs/130 | access-date = 2020-10-30 | archive-date = 2018-09-19 | archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20180919111616/https://repository.upenn.edu/neuroethics_pubs/130/ | dead-url = no }}</ref>

*'''[[止痛藥|止痛藥]]'''能使表現超出通常的疼痛閾值。一些止痛藥會升高[[血壓|血壓]]，增加對[[肌肉細胞|肌肉細胞]]的[[氧氣|氧氣]]供應。運動員使用的止痛藥包括[[非處方藥|非處方藥]]如[[非類固醇抗發炎藥|非類固醇抗發炎藥]]（例如[[布洛芬|布洛芬]]）到功能強大的處方[[麻醉藥|麻醉藥]]。

*'''[[鎮靜劑|鎮靜劑]]'''和'''[[抗焦慮藥|抗焦慮藥]]'''有時用於諸如[[射箭|射箭]]之類的運動中，需要穩定的手和準確的瞄準，還需要克服過度的[[緊張|緊張]]或不適感。[[地西泮|地西泮]]和[[普萘洛爾|普萘洛爾]]是常見的例子；偶爾也使用[[乙醇|乙醇]]和[[大麻|大麻]]。

*'''血液增強劑'''使血液的攜氧能力超出個人的自然能力。它們用於耐力運動，例如長跑、騎自行車和越野滑雪。重組人類[[紅血球生成素|紅血球生成素]]（rhEPO）是該類別中最廣為人知的藥物之一。<ref name="PEDs in sports review" />

==參考資料==
{{reflist|30em}}

==外部連結==
*{{Commons category-inline|Ergogenic aids}}

[[Category:体育用药|Category:体育用药]]
[[Category:苯丙胺|Category:苯丙胺]]
[[Category:促智药|Category:促智药]]