{{about|新生活版聖經|生活版聖經|當代聖經}}
{{聖經譯本 
| image =
| translation_title=新生活版英文翻譯本
| full_name=新生活版英文翻譯本
| abbreviation=NLT, NLTse
| complete_bible_published = 1996年、2004年、2007年
| textual_basis = 按希臘文版與希伯來文版的聖經原文重新修訂《[[當代聖經|當代聖經]]》。
| translation_type = [[意譯|意譯]]與[[字譯|字譯]]
| reading_level = 中學程度
| copyright=丁道爾出版社
| genesis_1:1-3=起初，上帝創造天地。地是空虛混沌，淵面黑暗；神的靈運行在水面上。神說：“要有光。”就有了光。<ref>"聖經新普及譯本",2012.</ref>
| john_3:16=上帝如此愛世人，甚至賜下自己的獨生子，叫一切相信他的人不致滅亡，反得永生。
}}

'''新生活版英文翻譯本''' ('''NLT''') 是按聖經原文，修訂成[[現代英文|現代英文]]的[[聖經譯本|聖經譯本]]。翻譯學者們所修訂的版本是《生活版聖經》；《生活版聖經》則源於希伯來文版與希臘文版的聖經。

==翻譯主旨==
以意譯為主，字譯較少。NLT的翻譯工作邀集了各個教派的翻譯學者，他們簡明地按原文字面上及與時態對等的原則，以忠實傳達文字背後的涵意。

就翻譯方法而言，僅根據字面意義的翻譯，對於研究學者來說比較容易了解或不容易使人誤解；但為使一般讀者容易明白，即須採用『意思對意思』的翻譯方法（thought-for-thought），但準確性則比字面翻譯（文字對文字）的方法來得低。所以相比之下，NLT可能不適合用於嚴謹的聖經研究。<ref>{{cite book|last=Rhodes|first=Ron|year=2009|publisher=Harvest House Publishers|isbn=978-0736925464|title=The Complete Guide to Bible Translations: How They Were Developed|url=http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=NfI6sgyzq4YC&pg=PA152&dq=accuracy+%22New+living+translation%22&hl=en&ei=_2GkTKOzE5TP4AbgrKjrDA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAg#v=onepage&q=accuracy%20%22New%20living%20translation%22&f=false|accessdate=2010-09-30|page=152|archive-date=2012-11-13|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20121113184105/http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=NfI6sgyzq4YC&pg=PA152&dq=accuracy+%22New+living+translation%22&hl=en&ei=_2GkTKOzE5TP4AbgrKjrDA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAg#v=onepage&q=accuracy%20%22New%20living%20translation%22&f=false|dead-url=no}}</ref> 

==文本基礎==
NLT所翻譯的舊約乃根據希伯來文聖經（聖經司徒加特版），並且再比對其他聖經文本，諸如[[死海古卷|死海古卷]]、[[七十士譯本|七十士譯本]]、希臘手稿、[[撒瑪利亞|撒瑪利亞]][[摩西五經|摩西五經]]、敘利亞別西大譯本、拉丁文聖經普通文本等。而所翻譯的新約則是基於兩個標準版的希臘文新約聖經（UBS第四修訂版和内斯特萊-奧蘭Novum Testamentum Graece第27版）。
<!--
==Translation history==
Work on this revision began in 1989 with ninety translators and published in 1996. Soon after that, a new revision was begun and The Second Edition of the NLT (also called the '''NLTse''') was released in 2004.<ref>[http://www.newlivingtranslation.com/05discoverthenlt/faqs.asp?faq=3 New Living Translation™: Discover The NLT - FAQs 　
<ref>[http://www.nltblog.com/index.php/2010/10/adding-to-the-text-or-interpreting-the-text/#comment-683 NLT Blog] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160504035139/http://www.nltblog.com/index.php/2010/10/adding-to-the-text-or-interpreting-the-text/ |date=2016-05-04 }}</ref>

==Translation properties==
The New Living Translation is meant to be easily accessible to readers of modern English. As part of this effort:<ref>{{cite web|title=Introduction to the New Living Translation|url=http://www.bible-researcher.com/nlt2preface.html|accessdate=2010-09-30}}</ref> 
*Weights and measures, money, dates and times etc. are described in modern terms, with footnotes giving the literal translation.
*Some phrases are translated into contemporary English; e.g. "they beat their breasts" (Luke 23:48) is translated as "They went home in deep sorrow" with again footnotes providing more literal interpretations. 
*Gender-inclusive language is used where the editors believed that it was appropriate, thus {{polytonic|ἀδελφοί}} (''adelphoi'') is translated "brothers and sisters".
-->
<!--
==Omitted verses==
The NLT omits several verses that are included in some translations, but are not found in the oldest available manuscripts. They are added to the footnotes instead. These verses are:
*馬太福音 17:21, 18:11, 23:14
*馬可福音 7:16, 9:44, 9:46, 11:26, 15:28
*路加福音 17:36, 23:17
*約翰福音 5:4
*使徒行傳 8:37, 28:29
*羅馬書 16:24

The NLT omits parts of several verses that are included in some translations, but are not found in the oldest available manuscripts. They are added to the footnotes instead. These parts are from:
*馬太福音 19:9
*馬可福音 6:11
*彼得前書 4:14
*彼得後書 5:7, 5:13
*啟示錄 1:11
-->
<!--
==Circulation==
In July, 2011 the NLT held 3rd place in Bible sales based upon dollar sales and 2nd place based on unit sales according to the Christian Booksellers Association.<ref>[http://www.cbaonline.org/nm/documents/BSLs/Bible_Translations.pdf CBA Bible Translation Bestseller List]</ref> In July, 2008, the NLT gained the #1 spot in unit sales, unseating the [[NIV|NIV]] for the first time in over two decades.<ref>[http://www.nltblog.com/index.php/2008/08/nlt-1-on-july-cba-bestseller-list/ "NLT #1 on July CBA Bestseller List"], New Living Translation Blog</ref>

There is a [[Roman_Catholic|Roman Catholic]] edition of the NLT with the [[Deuterocanon|Deuterocanon]], but this edition has not been granted an [[imprimatur|imprimatur]] by Catholic authorities, and so the NLT is not officially approved by the Roman Catholic Church for either private study or use in church services.

The NLT is available in numerous editions as well as three study Bible editions: ''The Life Application Study Bible'', ''The Discover God Study Bible'', and ''[[The_NLT_Study_Bible|The NLT Study Bible]].'' The Cornerstone Biblical Commentary series uses the second edition NLT text as its base.
-->

==參見==
*[[聖經新普及譯本|聖經新普及譯本]]（[[漢語聖經協會|漢語聖經協會]]）<ref>人間社記者觀樞綜合外電報導,"聖經新普及譯本 台灣將推出"[http://www.merit-times.com.tw/NewsPage.aspx?Unid=269976] {{Wayback|url=http://www.merit-times.com.tw/NewsPage.aspx?Unid=269976 |date=20200319155720 }},[[人間福報|人間福報]],2012/8/6.</ref>

==参考文献==
{{Reflist|2}}

==外部链接==
{{div col|cols=2}}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20040322195339/http://newlivingtranslation.com/ 新生活版聖經 官方網站]{{en}}
*[http://www.biblegateway.com/versions/index.php?action=getVersionInfo&vid=51&lang=2 聖經文本] {{Wayback|url=http://www.biblegateway.com/versions/index.php?action=getVersionInfo&vid=51&lang=2 |date=20090525071221 }}{{en}}
*[http://www.newlivingtranslation.com/05discoverthenlt/meetthescholars.asp 新生活版聖經的翻譯學者] {{Wayback|url=http://www.newlivingtranslation.com/05discoverthenlt/meetthescholars.asp |date=20180904121428 }}{{en}}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20070620012114/http://homepage.mac.com/rmansfield/thislamp/files/060623_new_living_translation.html 新生活版英文翻譯本聖經（十大聖經譯本，位居第4）]{{en}}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20081014004520/http://homepage.mac.com/rmansfield/thislamp/files/20080723_rise_of_the_NLT.html 新生活版英文翻譯本聖經的緣起]{{en}}
*[http://www.bible-researcher.com/nlt.html Michael Marlowe on the NLT] {{Wayback|url=http://www.bible-researcher.com/nlt.html |date=20201111235727 }} and [http://www.bible-researcher.com/nlt2.html 新生活版聖經 第2版] {{Wayback|url=http://www.bible-researcher.com/nlt2.html |date=20210210224528 }}{{en}}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20090407050801/http://www.biblestudymagazine.com/preview/NLTreview.pdf A Review of the NLT Study Bible in Bible Study Magazine]{{en}}
{{div col end}}
{{-}}
{{圣经英语译本}}

[[Category:1996年書籍|Category:1996年書籍]]
[[Category:圣经英语译本|Category:圣经英语译本]]