{{NoteTA
|G1=Butterfly
}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Symmachiini
| fossil_range = {{fossilrange|44|0|earliest=53}}<small>從古近紀[[始新世|始新世]]至今<ref name=e2015>Espeland, M., Hall, J. P., DeVries, P. J., Lees, D. C., Cornwall, M., Hsu, Y. F., ... & Salzman, S. 2015. Ancient Neotropical origin and recent recolonisation: Phylogeny, biogeography and diversification of the Riodinidae (Lepidoptera: Papilionoidea). Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 93, 296-306. {{en}}</ref></small>
| image = Symmachia accusatrix.JPG
| image_width = 300px
| image_caption = [[尖樹蜆蝶|尖樹蜆蝶]]<br />''Symmachia accusatrix''
| authority = Bates, 1859
| diversity = 共160種
| diversity_link = 生物多樣性
| type_genus = [[樹蜆蝶屬|樹蜆蝶屬]]<br />''Symmachia''
| type_genus_authority = Hübner, [1819]
| subdivision_ranks = 屬
| subdivision = 
共14個屬，詳閱正文。
}}

'''樹蜆蝶族'''（學名：'''''Symmachiini'''''）是[[蜆蝶科|蜆蝶科]][[蜆蝶亞科|蜆蝶亞科]]裡的一個[[族_(生物)|族]]，包含了14個屬。物種分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]<ref name=e2015/>。

== 特徵 ==
* 前翅擁有四條脛脈<ref name=e2015/>
* 雄蝶腹部第4至7節背板前緣長有獨有的香鱗微結構<ref>Harvey DJ. 1987. The higher classification of the Riodinidae (Lepidoptera). Austin: University of Texas Ph. D. Dissertation, 216 pp.</ref>(除了[[孔蜆蝶屬|孔蜆蝶屬]]<ref>Hall, J.P.W., Willmott, K.R., 1996. Systematics of the riodinid tribe Symmachiini, with the description of a new genus and five new species from Ecuador, Venezuela and Brazil (Lepidoptera: Riodinidae). Lambillionea 96, 637–658.</ref>)

== 分類 ==
* [[泉蜆蝶屬|泉蜆蝶屬]] ''Chimastrum''
* [[雲蜆蝶屬|雲蜆蝶屬]] ''Esthemopsis''
* [[瑩蜆蝶屬|瑩蜆蝶屬]] ''Lucillella''
* [[迷蜆蝶屬|迷蜆蝶屬]] ''Mesene''
* [[密蜆蝶屬|密蜆蝶屬]] ''Mesenopsis''
* ''[[Panaropsis|Panaropsis]]''
* [[番蜆蝶屬|番蜆蝶屬]] ''Phaenochitonia''
* ''[[Pirascca|Pirascca]]''
* [[普蜆蝶屬|普蜆蝶屬]] ''Pterographium''
* [[絲蜆蝶屬|絲蜆蝶屬]] ''Stichelia''
* [[樹蜆蝶屬|樹蜆蝶屬]] ''Symmachia''
* [[叢蜆蝶屬|叢蜆蝶屬]] ''Xenandra''
* [[肅蜆蝶屬|肅蜆蝶屬]] ''Xynias''
* [[孔蜆蝶屬|孔蜆蝶屬]] ''Comphotis''

== 腳註 ==
<references/>

== 參考文獻 ==
{{Commons category|Symmachiini}}
{{Wikispecies|Symmachiini}}
* Lamas G ed. 2004. Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2007. [http://tolweb.org/Symmachiini/103511/2007.08.09 Symmachiini] {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Symmachiini/103511/2007.08.09 |date=20191130232744 }} Bates 1859. Version 09 August 2007 (under construction). in [http://tolweb.org/ The Tree of Life Web Project] {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新, 周尧, 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768}}

== 外部連結 ==
* [http://ftp.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/riodinidae/#Symmachiini Symmachiini] {{Wayback|url=http://ftp.funet.fi/pub/sci/bio/life/insecta/lepidoptera/ditrysia/papilionoidea/riodinidae/#Symmachiini |date=20161001185627 }} - funet.fi

{{蜆蝶亞科}}
{{Taxonbar|from=Q2019767}}

[[Category:樹蜆蝶族|*]]
[[Category:蜆蝶亞科|S]]