{{italic title}}
{{Speciesbox
| image = Littoraria irrorata.jpg
| image_caption = The shell of this individual of ''Littoraria irrorata'' is covered in the [[lichen|lichen]] ''[[Pyrenocollema_halodytes|Pyrenocollema halodytes]]''
| genus = Littoraria
| species = irrorata
| authority = {{link-en|Thomas Say|Thomas Say|Say
}}, 1822
| synonyms_ref = <ref name="WoRMS_419566" />
| synonyms = 
* ''Littorina irrorata'' (Say, 1822)
* ''Turbo irroratus'' Say, 1822
}}
'''''Littoraria irrorata'''''为[[玉黍螺科|玉黍螺科]]之下的一個生活於[[北美洲|北美洲]][[大西洋海岸|大西洋海岸]]與[[墨西哥灣岸|墨西哥灣岸]][[鹹水沼澤|鹹水沼澤]]的物種，從[[麻省|麻省]]到[[德薩斯州|德薩斯州]]皆有其踪影。舊屬[[中腹足目|中腹足目]][[蝾螺属|蝾螺属]]，今已重新分類為[[高腹足類|高腹足類]]支序（Hypsogastropoda）[[玉黍螺總科|玉黍螺總科]][[玉黍螺屬|玉黍螺屬]]<ref name="WoRMS_419566">{{cite WoRMS |last=Reid |first=David G. |year=2011 |title=Littoraria irrorata (Say, 1822) |accessdate=2011-05-16 |id=419566}}</ref><ref name="WoRMS_206218">{{cite WoRMS |last=Reid |first=David G. |year=2011 |title=''Littoraria'' Griffith & Pidgeon, 1834|id=206218 |accessdate=2011-04-15 }}</ref>。

本物種是少數已知會透過培殖真菌來為自己提供營養的軟體生物物種之一<ref name="Fungiculture">{{cite journal| author=Brian R. Silliman , Steven Y. Newell| title=Fungal farming in a snail| journal=Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences| year=2003| volume=100| issue=26| url=http://www.pnas.org/content/100/26/15643.abstract?sid=4b135cbb-4545-4dda-9d92-f37fcd477949| pages=15643–15648| doi=10.1073/pnas.2535227100| pmid=14657360| pmc=307621| bibcode=2003PNAS..10015643S| access-date=2015-03-12| archive-date=2015-09-24| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150924134241/http://www.pnas.org/content/100/26/15643.abstract?sid=4b135cbb-4545-4dda-9d92-f37fcd477949| dead-url=no}}</ref>。

==參考資料==
{{reflist}}

==延伸閱讀==
* Reid, D.G. (1986). ''The littorinid molluscs of mangrove forests in the Indo-Pacific region''. British Museum (Natural History), London
* Reid, D.G. (1989a) ''The comparative morphology, phylogeny and evolution of the gastropod family Littorinidae''. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, Series B 324: 1-110
* Reid, D.G., Dyal, P. & Williams, S.T. (2009) ''Global diversification of mangrove fauna: a molecular phylogeny of Littoraria (Gastropoda: Littorinidae)''. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution
* Rosenberg, G., F. Moretzsohn, and E. F. García. 2009. ''Gastropoda (Mollusca) of the Gulf of Mexico'', Pp. 579–699 in Felder, D.L. and D.K. Camp (eds.), Gulf of Mexico–Origins, Waters, and Biota. Biodiversity. Texas A&M Press, College Station, Texas

==外部連結==
* [http://www.malacolog.org/search.php?nameid=1454 Malacolog info] {{Wayback|url=http://www.malacolog.org/search.php?nameid=1454 |date=20160303192239 }}
{{Taxonbar|from=Q3143143}}

[[Category:玉黍螺屬|irrorata]]