{{Speciesbox 
| taxon = Chitra indica
| status = EN
| status_system = iucn2.3
| image = Dudhwalive chitra.JPG
| binomial_authority = Gray, 1831
| synonyms =
* ''Trionyx indicus'' <small>Gray, 1831</small>
* ''Gymnopus lineatus'' <small>Duméril & Bibron, 1835</small>
* ''Chitra indica'' <small>Gray, 1844</small>
* ''Gymnopus indicus'' <small>Cantor, 1847</small>
* ''Testudo chitra'' <small>Buchanan-Hamilton, 1831</small> ''([[nomen_nudum|nomen nudum]])''
* ''Trionyx lineatus'' <small>Martens, 1876</small>
* ''Aspidonectes indicus'' <small>Hay, 1904</small>
| synonyms_ref=<ref name="Fritz 2007">{{Cite journal |journal=Vertebrate Zoology |title=Checklist of Chelonians of the World |year=2007 |author=Fritz Uwe |coauthors=Peter Havaš |volume=57 |issue=2 |pages=312 |id=ISSN 18640-5755 |url=http://www.cnah.org/pdf_files/851.pdf |archiveurl=https://www.webcitation.org/5v20ztMND?url=http://www.cnah.org/pdf_files/851.pdf |archivedate=2010-12-17 |accessdate=29 May 2012 |deadurl=yes }}</ref>
| range_map =
| range_map_width = 250px
| range_map_caption =
}}

'''印度小頭鱉'''（[[學名|學名]]：'''''Chitra indica'''''）<ref>[http://www.dudhwatigerreserve.com/reptile.html Reptiles of Dudhwa tiger reserve... ] {{Wayback|url=http://www.dudhwatigerreserve.com/reptile.html |date=20200608021937 }} dudhwatigerreserve.com</ref> 是[[小頭鱉屬|小頭鱉屬]]下的一種[[鱉|鱉]]，分佈于[[巴基斯坦|巴基斯坦]]和[[印度|印度]]。种名''indica''意为印度的。

==參考文獻==
{{Reflist}}
* {{IUCN2006|assessors=Asian Turtle Trade Working Group|year=2000|id=4696|title=Chitra indica|downloaded=9 May 2006}} Database entry includes a brief justification of why this species is endangered and the criteria used
* Boulenger, G.A. 1889 Catalogue of the Chelonians, Rhynchocephalians, and Crocodiles in the British Museum (Natural History). British Museum, London, 311 pp.
* Engstrom, Tag N., H. Bradley Shaffer, and William P. McCord. 2002 Phylogenetic Diversity of Endangered and Critically Endangered Southeast Asian Softshell Turtles (TrionychidaChitra). Biological Conservation 104 (2):173-179
* Gray, J. E. 1831 A synopsis of the species of Class Reptilia. In: Griffith, E & E. Pidgeon: The animal kingdom arranged in conformity with its organisation by the Baron Cuvier with additional descriptions of all the species hither named, and of many before noticed [Vol. 9]. Whittaker, Treacher and Co., London: 481 + 110 pp.
* Gray, J. E. 1831 Synopsis Reptilium  or short descriptions of the species of reptiles. Part I: Cataphracta, tortoises, crocodiles, and enaliosaurians. Treuttel, Wurz & Co., London, 85 pp.
* Gray, J.E. 1844 Catalogue of Tortoises, Crocodilians, and Amphisbaenians in the Collection of the British Museum. British Museum (Natural History), London. viii + 80 p.
* [[John_Edward_Gray|Gray, J. E.]] 1864 [http://www.archive.org/stream/proceedingsofgen64zool#page/76/mode/2up Revision of the species of Trionychidae found in Asia and Africa, with descriptions of some new species]. Proc. Zool. Soc. London 1864: 76-98
* [[Webb,_R.G.|Webb, R.G.]] 1980 Gray, Hardwicke, Buchanan-Hamilton, and drawings of Indian softshell turtles (Family Trionychidae). Amphibia-Reptilia 1: 61-74.

==外部連結==
* {{NRDB species|genus=Chitra|species=indica}}
{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_1831年描述的动物|Y]]
[[Category:小頭鱉屬|Y]]
[[Category:印度爬行動物|Y]]
[[Category:巴基斯坦爬行動物|Y]]