'''焦點'''（縮寫為：foc）是一種[[語法|語法]]的[[類別|類別]]，用於確定句子的哪一部分能夠提供新的、不可推導的或對比的信息。<ref name=Halliday>{{Citation  | first = M.  | last = Halliday  | author =  | authorlink =  | title = Notes on Transitivity and Theme in English (Part 2)  | version =  | publisher = Journal of Linguistics 3.  | year = 1967  | url =  | page = 206  | accessdate = }}</ref>焦點與{{le|信息結構|Information structure}}有關。'''對比焦點'''尤其是指與{{le|對話者 (語言學)|對話者}}的前提相反之信息編碼。<ref>{{Citation|last=Givon|first=Talmy|title=Syntax: An Introduction Vol. II|year=2001|publisher=John Benjamins Publishing Co.|location=Amsterdam}}</ref><ref>{{Citation|last=Lambrecht|first=Knud|title=Information Structure and Sentence Form: Topic, Focus, and the Mental Representation of Discourse Referents|year=1994|publisher=Cambridge University Press|location=Cambridge}}</ref><ref name="Camacho 2010">{{Citation |last=Camacho |first=José |title=Information Structure in the Languages of the Americas: Syntactic Approaches |year=2010 |publisher=Mouton de Gruyter |location=Berlin |author2=Rodrigo Gutiérrez-Bravo |author3=Liliana Sánchez}}</ref>

相關詞條包括{{le|主題與評論|Topic and comment|評論}}以及{{le|主題與評論|Topic and comment|述位}}(Rheme)。<ref <ref name="Camacho 2010"/><ref>{{Citation |last=Bates |first=Elizabeth |author2=Brian MacWhinney |title=A functionalist approach to the acquisition of grammar |journal=Functionalism in Linguistics |year=1987 |editor1-first=Rene |editor2=V. Fried |editor1-last=Dirven |pages=209–264 |publisher=John Benjamins |location=Amersterdam |postscript=.}}</ref><ref>{{Citation|last=Mel’čuk|first=Igor A.|title=Communicative Organization in Natural Language: The Semantic-Communicative Structure of Sentences|year=2001|publisher=John Benjamins|location=Amsterdam}}</ref>

==參見==
*{{le|主題與評論|Topic–comment}}
*[[话题优先语言|话题优先语言]]
*[[c-command|c-command]]

==註釋==
{{Reflist|2}}

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
*Cinque, Guglielmo (1993). 'A null theory of phrase and compound stress'. ''Linguistic Inquiry'' 24:239-267.
*[[Ad_Neeleman|Neeleman, Ad]] and [[Tanya_Reinhart|Tanya Reinhart]] (1998). 'Scrambling and the PF-Interface'. In ''The Projection of Arguments'', CSLI Publications, 309-353.
*Ocampo, Francisco (2003). On the notion of focus in spoken Spanish: An empirical approach. In ''Theory, Practice, and Acquisition'', ed. by Paula Kempchinsky and Carlos-Eduardo Pineros. Sommerville: Cascadilla Press, 207-226.
*Pereltsvaig, Asya (2002). 'Topic and focus as linear notions: evidence from Russian and Italian'. ''Proceedings of the Conference on the Interaction between Syntax and Pragmatics at UCL''.
*Szendrői, Kriszta (2004). 'Focus and the interaction between syntax and pragmatics'. ''[[Lingua_(journal)|Lingua]]'' 114(3), 229-254.
*Xu, Y., C. X. Xu and X. Sun (2004). 'On the temporal domain of focus'. In Proceedings of International Conference on Speech Prosody 2004, Nara, Japan: 81-84.
{{refend}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Focus (Linguistics)}}
[[Category:語法範疇|Category:語法範疇]]
[[Category:語法實體|Category:語法實體]]
[[Category:語義學|Category:語義學]]