{{multiple issues|
{{Expand language|time=2017-08-12T01:02:27+00:00}}
{{Infobox requested|time=2017-08-12T01:02:27+00:00}}
{{unreferenced|time=2017-08-12T01:02:27+00:00}}
}}
{{Listen
| filename    = Heart of Oak.ogg
| title       = 橡樹之心
| description = Heart of Oak, by Cecilian Male Quartet, Canada 1915
| pos         = right
}}
《'''橡樹之心'''》（{{lang-en|'''''Heart of Oak'''''}}），是[[英國皇家海軍|英國皇家海軍]]的官方軍事[[遊行|遊行]][[歌曲|歌曲]]。

== [[英文|英文]]歌詞 ==
Come, cheer up, my lads, 'tis to glory we steer,<br>
To add something more to this wonderful year;<br>
To honour we call you, as freemen not slaves,<br>
For who are so free as the sons of the waves?

合唱:<br>
'''Heart of Oak are our ships,<br> 
'''Jolly Tars are our men,'''<br> 
'''We always are ready: Steady, boys, Steady!<br> 
'''We'll fight and we'll conquer again and again.

We ne'er see our foes but we wish them to stay,<br>
They never see us but they wish us away;<br>
If they run, why we follow, and run them ashore,<br>
For if they won't fight us, what can we do more?

(合唱)

They say they'll invade us these terrible foe,<br>
They frighten our women, our children, our beaus,<br>
But if should their flat-bottoms, in darkness set oar,<br>
Still Britons they'll find to receive them on shore.

(合唱)

We still make them fear and we still make them flee,<br>
And drub them ashore as we drub them at sea,<br>
Then cheer up me lads with one heart let us sing,<br>
Our soldiers and sailors, our statesmen and king.

(合唱 X2)

'''Alternative first verse''':<br>
Come, cheer up, my lads, 'tis to glory we steer,<br>
With heads carried high, we will banish all fear;<br>
To honour we call you, as freemen not slaves,<br>
For who are so free as the sons of the waves?

'''Alternative last verse''':<br>
Britannia triumphant her ships rule the seas,<br>
Her watch word is 'Justice' her password is 'Free',<br>
So come cheer up my lads, with one heart let us sing,<br>
Our soldiers, our sailors, our statesmen, our king[queen].

[[Category:英國歌曲|Category:英國歌曲]]
[[Category:英國皇家海軍|Category:英國皇家海軍]]