'''约阿希姆·那兹'''博士（Dr. '''Joachim Nerz'''）是专业从事[[太阳瓶子草属|太阳瓶子草属]]和[[猪笼草属|猪笼草属]][[食虫植物|食虫植物]]研究的分类学家和植物学家。约阿希姆·那兹描述了几个新物种，其中大部分是与[[安德烈亚斯·维斯图巴|安德烈亚斯·维斯图巴]]合作的。

{{botanist|Nerz|约阿希姆·那兹}}

== 著作 ==
* Schlauer, J. & J. Nerz 1994. Notes on ''Nepenthes'' (Nepenthaceae). I. Contributions to the Flora of Sumatra. ''Blumea'' '''39''': 139–142.
* Nerz, J. & A. Wistuba 1994. [https://web.archive.org/web/20110805161400/http://www.carnivorousplants.org/cpn/Species/v23n4p101_114.html Five new taxa of ''Nepenthes'' (Nepenthaceae) from North and West Sumatra]. ''[[食虫植物通讯|Carnivorous Plant Newsletter]]'' '''23'''(4): 101–114.
* Nerz, J., P. Mann, T. Alt & T. Smith 1998. [http://www.carnivorousplants.org/cpn/samples/Tax271Nsibuy.htm ''Nepenthes sibuyanensis'', a new ''Nepenthes'' from Sibuyan, a remote island of the Philippines]. ''[[食虫植物通讯|Carnivorous Plant Newsletter]]'' '''27'''(1): 18–23.
* Nerz, J. 1998. [http://www.carnivorousplants.org/cpn/samples/NatHist273Naristo.htm Rediscovery of an outstanding ''Nepenthes'': ''N. aristolochioides'' (Nepenthaceae)]. ''[[食虫植物通讯|Carnivorous Plant Newsletter]]'' '''27'''(3): 101–114.
* Nerz, J. & A. Wistuba 2000. [http://www.carnivorousplants.org/cpn/Species/v29n2p37_41.html ''Heliamphora hispida'' (Sarraceniaceae), a new species from Cerro Neblina, Brazil-Venezuela]. ''[[食虫植物通讯|Carnivorous Plant Newsletter]]'' '''29'''(2): 37–41.
* Thiv, M. & J. Nerz 2000. ''Saccifolium'', oder die bemerkenswerte Geschichte einer der seltensten Tepui-Pflanzen. ''Der Palmengarten'' '''64'''(1): 11–16.
* Nerz, J. 2004. [http://www.carnivorousplants.org/cpn/Species/v33n4p111_116.html ''Heliamphora elongata'' (Sarraceniaceae), a new species from Ilu-Tepui]. ''[[食虫植物通讯|Carnivorous Plant Newsletter]]'' '''33'''(4): 111–116.
* Wistuba, A., T. Carow, P. Harbarth & J. Nerz 2005. ''Heliamphora pulchella'', eine neue mit ''Heliamphora minor'' (Sarraceniaceae) verwandte Art aus der Chimanta Region in Venezuela. ''[[Das_Taublatt|Das Taublatt]]'' '''53'''(3): 42–50.
* Nerz, J. & A. Wistuba 2006. [http://www.carnivorousplants.org/cpn/Species/v35n2p43_48.html ''Heliamphora exappendiculata'', a clearly distinct species with unique characteristics]. ''[[食虫植物通讯|Carnivorous Plant Newsletter]]'' '''35'''(2): 43–51.
* Nerz, J., A. Wistuba & G. Hoogenstrijd 2006. ''Heliamphora glabra'' (Sarraceniaceae), eine eindrucksvolle ''Heliamphora'' Art aus dem westlichen Teil des Guayana Schildes. ''[[Das_Taublatt|Das Taublatt]]'' '''54''': 58–70.
* Wistuba, A., J. Nerz & A. Fleischmann 2007. [http://www.ingentaconnect.com/search/article?title=nepenthes+flava&title_type=tka&year_from=1998&year_to=2007&database=1&pageSize=20&index=1''Nepenthes flava'', a new species of Nepenthaceae from the northern part of Sumatra]. ''Blumea'' '''52''': 159–163.
* Nerz, J. & A. Wistuba 2007. ''Nepenthes mantalingajanensis'' (Nepenthaceae), eine bemerkenswerte neue Spezies aus Palawan (Philippinen). ''[[Das_Taublatt|Das Taublatt]]'' '''55'''(3): 17–25.
* Fleischmann, A., A. Wistuba & J. Nerz. 2009. Three new species of ''Heliamphora'' (Sarraceniaceae) from the Guayana Highlands of Venezuela. ''Willdenowia'' '''39'''(2): 273–283. {{DOI|10.3372/wi.39.39206}}

== 参考文献 ==
{{reflist}}

== 扩展阅读 ==
*[http://www.joachim-nerz.de 个人主页]

{{Authority control}}