{{noteTA
|G1=美国漫画
|1=zh-cn:鞭笞; zh-tw:萊許; zh-hk:賴許;
}}
{{Infobox comics character
<!--Wikipedia:WikiProject Comics-->
| character_name = 鞭笞<br>{{lang|en|Lash}}
| image          = 
| imagesize      = 
| caption        = 
| alt            = 
| publisher      = [[漫威漫画|漫威漫画]]
| debut          = 《[[異人族|異人族]]》#1 (2014年6月).
| creators       = [[查尔斯·索尔|查尔斯·索尔]]<br>[[Joe_Madureira|Joe Madureira]]
| full_name      = 
| species        = [[異人族|異人族]]
| homeworld      = <!-- optional -->
| alliances      = [[異人族|異人族]]<br>The Lor Tribe
| partners       =
| supports       = 
| aliases        = 
| powers         = 
| cat            = 
| subcat         = 漫威漫画
| hero           =
| villain        = 
| sortkey        = Lash
| addcharcat#    = 
}}
'''鞭笞'''（{{lang-en|Lash}}）是漫威漫画中的超级反派。由作家查尔斯·索尔和艺术家Joe Madureira创造，他第一次出现在《异人族》＃1（2014年6月）。

鞭笞是异人族，在世界各地的泰瑞根迷雾中的“无限”的剧情结束后中有关键的作用。<ref name="soule-lash-ign">{{cite web |first=Joshua |last=Yehl |url=http://www.ign.com/articles/2014/03/07/marvels-next-big-thing-inhuman-with-charles-soule-and-joe-madureira |title=Marvel's Next Big Thing: Inhuman with Charles Soule and Joe Madureira |work=[[IGN|IGN]] |date=March 7, 2014 |accessdate=September 12, 2015 |quote=Lash is an Inhuman. He is one of those hidden Inhumans, who is not part of the royal family. He did not live on Attilan. He is basically emerging into the light now as a result of the events in Infinity, particularly the release of the Terrigen Cloud. So he lives in a city that we saw in [[Infinity_(comic_book)|Infinity]] called Orollan, which was where [[Thane_(comics)|Thane]], son of [[Thanos|Thanos]], was found. ... The idea was that that city only has one tiny splinter of Terrigen Crystal, which meant it couldn't do the Terrigenesis ritual that Inhumans go through at maturity to sort of figure out what their powers are going to be. People of Orollan had to be very, very selective about it and could only grant that to people they thought would get good powers. So it was almost more of a religious thing for them, more than it was just a part of Inhuman life.<br />So now that Terrigen Mists are circulating around the world and any Tom, Dick and Harry with Inhuman genetic code can go through Terrigenesis, he finds that to be blasphemy and heretical. So what he is doing is essentially travelling the world and trying to do what he can to stop that heresy and to bring things back in line with how he thinks Terrigenesis should be approached in the world. |archive-date=2020-11-12 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20201112041201/https://www.ign.com/articles/2014/03/07/marvels-next-big-thing-inhuman-with-charles-soule-and-joe-madureira |dead-url=no }}</ref>

== 其他媒體 ==
=== 電視 ===
* 鞭笞在《[[神盾局特工|神盾局特工]]》第三季中登场，由麥特·威利格扮演，布萊爾·安德伍德則扮演他的人间体安德鲁·加纳。

=== 遊戲 === 
* 《[[漫威：未來之戰|漫威：未來之戰]]》：手機遊戲，鞭笞是玩家可使用角色之一。

==參考資料==
{{Reflist}}

{{異人族}}
[[Category:漫威漫画超级反派|Category:漫威漫画超级反派]]
[[Category:2014年首次亮相的漫画角色|Category:2014年首次亮相的漫画角色]]
[[Category:漫威漫画电视角色|Category:漫威漫画电视角色]]

{{美国漫画小作品}}