{{expand|time=2013-09-21T13:10:38+00:00}}
{{Otheruses|图兰 (消歧义)}}
'''图兰'''（波斯语：توران ），是[[波斯语|波斯语]]中对[[中亚|中亚]]的称呼<ref>Emeri "van" Donzel, 《Islamic Reference Desk》, Brill Academic Publishers, 1994. pg 461.  引用: ''Iranian term applied to region lying to the northeast of Iran and ultimately indicating very vaguely the country of the Turkic peoples.''</ref>，本意为图尔人（Tur）的土地。图兰最初的居民为[[波斯古经|波斯古经]]时代的Tuirya[[伊朗人|伊朗人]]<ref>Edward A Allworth,《Central Asia: A Historical Overview》, 杜克大学出版社, 1994. p 86</ref><ref>I. M. Diakonoff, 《The Paths of History》, 剑桥大学出版社, 1999, p. 100 : ''Turan was one of the nomadic Iranian tribes mentioned in the ''Avesta''.  However, in Firdousi’s poem, and in the later Iranian tradition generally, the term Turan is perceived as denoting ‘lands inhabited by Turkic speaking tribes.''</ref><ref>G. Gnoli, 《Zoroaster's time and homeland》, Naples 1980, 引用''Iranian tribes that also keep on recurring in the Yasht,  Airyas, Sairimas, Sainus and Dahis''</ref>。那里存在的两支伊朗人部落经常会发生战争。而根据《[[列王纪_(伊朗)|列王纪]]》，在波斯古经时代1500年之后，居住在这片土地上的游牧部族开始被图尔（Tūr）所统治，他是皇帝菲里敦（فریدون，Fereydūn)的长子。同样根据《列王纪》，与[[突厥人|突厥人]]的联系是因为那时中亚的[[突厥化|突厥化]]已经开始并部分完成。他們中最著名的王是額弗拉斯牙卜，是[[黑汗王朝|黑汗王朝]]始祖。也有人說圖蘭是一些與信仰[[拜火教|拜火教]]的伊朗人敵對的部族。

伊朗人和图兰人被认为是一个民族，他们都是费雷敦的后裔，但有两个不同的领地，而且经常相互交战。<ref>K. H. Menges, in [http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/altaic-the-altaic-peoples-and-languages-are-distributed-around-45-north-latitude-from-eastern-europe-to-the-pacific-ocean Encyclopaedia Iranica] {{Wayback|url=http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/altaic-the-altaic-peoples-and-languages-are-distributed-around-45-north-latitude-from-eastern-europe-to-the-pacific-ocean |date=20201129231020 }} Excerpt: "In a series of relatively minor movements, Turkic groups began to occupy territories in western Central Asia and eastern Europe which had previously been held by Iranians (i.e. , Turan). The Volga Bulgars, following the Avars, proceeded to the Volga and Ukraine in the 6th-7th centuries."</ref>

==现代意义==
{{unreferenced section|time=2016-12-06T13:26:35+00:00}}
===地理===
指[[图兰低地|图兰低地]]，中亚一片广袤的平原。

另指图兰部，[[中华人民共和国|中华人民共和国]][[内蒙古自治区|内蒙古自治区]]蒙古族部落，人口不足一万。

===语言===
图兰语，属[[烏拉尔语系|烏拉尔语系]]、[[阿尔泰语系|阿尔泰语系]]、讲图兰语的整体也被称作是图兰人，现图兰人多居于[[中华人民共和国|中华人民共和国]]境内。

===姓名===
图兰（Turan）是中东地区较为常见的一个名字。图兰朵（Turandot或Turandokht）是伊朗人的一个女用名字，波斯语意为“图兰的女儿”。

==參見==
*[[圖蘭主義|圖蘭主義]]
*[[杜蘭朵|杜蘭朵]]

==参考文献==
{{Reflist}}

{{圖瓦共和國行政區劃}}

[[Category:波斯文化|Category:波斯文化]]