{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Celaenorrhinini
| authority = Swinhoe, 1912
| image = Common small flat-Sarangesa purendra.JPG
| image_caption = [[斑紋刷脛弄蝶|斑紋刷脛弄蝶]]<br />''Sarangesa purendra''
| type_species = [[星弄蝶|星弄蝶]] <br />''Papilio eligius''
| type_species_authority = Stoll, 1781
| subdivision_ranks = [[屬|屬]]
| subdivision = 有5個，詳見正文。
}}

'''星弄蝶族'''（學名：Celaenorrhinini）是[[弄蝶科|弄蝶科]][[花弄蝶亞科|花弄蝶亞科]]裡的一個[[族_(生物)|族]]。物種分佈於非洲及亞洲的泛熱帶地區。[[卡特弄蝶屬|卡特弄蝶屬]]（''Katreus''）及''[[Ortholexis|Ortholexis]]''今歸入[[卡特弄蝶亞科|卡特弄蝶亞科]]<ref>Zhang, J., Cong, Q., Shen, J., Brockmann, E., & Grishin, N. V. (2019). Three new subfamilies of skipper butterflies (Lepidoptera, Hesperiidae). ZooKeys, 861, 91.</ref>。

== 分類 ==
以下各屬是以[[種系發生|種系發生學]]過程排列<ref>{{Cite web |url= http://tolweb.org/Carcharodini/95260 |title= Celaenorrhinini |accessdate= 2014-07-29 |work= Warren, A. D., Ogawa, J. R. & Brower, A. V. Z. 2009 Revised classification of the family Hesperiidae (Lepidoptera: Hesperioidea) based on combined molecular and morphological data. Systematic Entomology 34, 467-523. |publisher= Tree of Life Project |date= 2009-06-14 |archive-date= 2021-01-17 |archive-url= https://web.archive.org/web/20210117092759/http://www.tolweb.org/Carcharodini/95260 |dead-url= no }}</ref>：
* [[亞倫弄蝶屬|亞倫弄蝶屬]] ''Alenia''
* [[星弄蝶屬|星弄蝶屬]] ''Celaenorrhinus'' = 奧奈弄蝶屬 （''Orneates''）
* [[邇弄蝶屬|邇弄蝶屬]] ''Eretis''
* [[刷脛弄蝶屬|刷脛弄蝶屬]] ''Sarangesa''
* [[襟弄蝶屬|襟弄蝶屬]] ''Pseudocoladenia''

== 參考 ==
{{reflist|}}

== 文獻 ==
* {{Commonscat-inline|Celaenorrhinini}}
* {{aut|Cock, M.J.W.}}; {{aut|Congdon, T.C.E.}} 2011: Observations on the biology of Afrotropical Hesperiidae (Lepidoptera) principally from Kenya. Part 3. Pyrginae: Celaenorrhinini. {{Zootaxa|2011|3033|1|67}}
* {{aut|Larsen, T.B.}}; {{aut|Congdon, T.C.E.}} 2011: ''Triskelionia'', a new African genus of the Celaenorrhinini (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae) and the promotion of ''T. compacta'' to species-status. {{Zootaxa|2011|2931|53|58}}
* {{aut|Miller, L.D.}}, 1971: Descriptions of new species and notes on other ''Hesperiidae'' of Africa. ''Bull. Allyn Museum'' '''2''': 1-17. Full article: [http://www.flmnh.ufl.edu/mcguire/allyn_pdfs/AME02.pdf] {{Wayback|url=http://www.flmnh.ufl.edu/mcguire/allyn_pdfs/AME02.pdf |date=20120126205049 }}
* {{aut|Warren, A.D. ; J.R. Ogawa & A.V.Z. Brower}}, 2008: Phylogenetic relationships of subfamilies and circumscription of tribes in the family ''Hesperiidae'' (Lepidoptera: Hesperioidea). ''Cladistics'' '''24''': 642-676.
* {{aut|Warren, A. D., Ogawa, J. R. & Brower, A. V. Z.}} 2009 Revised classification of the family Hesperiidae (Lepidoptera: Hesperioidea) based on combined molecular and morphological data. Systematic Entomology 34, 467-523.

{{taxonbar}}
[[Category:_1912年描述的分类群|X]]
[[Category:星弄蝶族|*]]
[[Category:花弄蝶亞科|X]]