{{Infobox artwork
| image_file = 
| painting_alignment = 
| image_size         = 200 px
| title              = 晚宴<br>The Dinner Party
| alt                =
| artist             = [[朱迪·芝加哥|朱迪·芝加哥]]
| year               = {{Start date|1979}}
| type               = [[綜合媒材|綜合媒材]]
| height_metric      =
| width_metric       =
| length_metric      =
| height_imperial    = 
| width_imperial     = 
| length_imperial    = 
| metric_unit        = cm
| imperial_unit      = in
| city               = [[美國|美國]][[纽约州|纽约州]][[紐約市|紐約市]][[布鲁克林区|布鲁克林区]]
| museum             = [[布鲁克林博物馆|布鲁克林博物馆]]
| coordinates        = 
| owner              = [[布鲁克林博物馆|布鲁克林博物馆]]
}}
'''晚宴'''（{{lang-en|The Dinner Party}}）是女权艺术家[[朱迪·芝加哥|朱迪·芝加哥]]的[[裝置藝術|装置艺术品]] ，朱迪·芝加哥在一個三角形的桌子上摆放了39个餐布和碟子，意為替39名神话和历史上的著名女性預留的座位。這39名知名女性包括幫助美國遠征隊的原住民休休尼族婦女[[萨卡加维亚|萨卡加维亚]]、美國婦女權益及廢奴主義者[[索杰纳·特鲁思|索杰纳·特鲁思]]、英格蘭王后[[阿基坦的埃莉诺|阿基坦的埃莉诺]]、拜占庭帝國的[[狄奥多拉皇后_(查士丁尼一世)|奥多拉皇后]]、女性主義作家[[弗吉尼亚·吴尔夫|弗吉尼亚·吴尔夫]]、爭取美國女性投票權的[[苏珊·安东尼|苏珊·安东尼]]，和二十世紀的美國藝術家[[喬治亞·歐姬芙|喬治亞·歐姬芙]]。而在三角形中間的地板上刻有998名女性名字和1位曾誤以為是女性的男性名字。該藝術品於1979年首次展出<ref>{{cite web|last1=Reilly|first1=Maura|title=founding curator|url=http://www.brooklynmuseum.org/eascfa/dinner_party/tour_and_home.php|website=Brooklyn Museum.org|accessdate=16 December 2014|archive-date=2015-06-24|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150624060427/http://www.brooklynmuseum.org/eascfa/dinner_party/tour_and_home.php|dead-url=no}}</ref>，自2007年以来，它一直在美国纽约[[布鲁克林博物馆|布鲁克林博物馆]]展出。

被預留座位的39位妇女分別是：{{Div col|colwidth=22em}}
1. [[希腊原始神|希腊原始神]] <br>
2. {{link-en|Fertility goddess}}  <br>
3. [[伊南娜|伊南娜]] <br>
4. [[时母|时母]] <br>
5. {{link-en|Snake Goddess}} <br>
6. {{link-en|Sophia|Sophia (wisdom)}} <br>
7. [[亞馬遜人|亞馬遜人]] <br>
8. [[哈特谢普苏特|哈特谢普苏特]] <br>
9. [[友弟德传|友弟德传]] <br>
10. [[莎孚|莎孚]] <br>
11. [[阿斯帕齊婭|阿斯帕齊婭]] <br>
12. [[布狄卡|布狄卡]] <br>
13. [[希帕提婭|希帕提婭]]<br>
14. {{link-en|Saint Marcella}} <br>
15. [[聖布麗姬|聖布麗姬]] <br>
16. [[狄奥多拉皇后_(查士丁尼一世)|狄奥多拉皇后]] <br>
17. [[赫羅斯葳塔|赫羅斯葳塔]] <br>
18. [[薩萊諾的特洛塔|薩萊諾的特洛塔]] <br>
19. [[阿基坦的埃莉诺|阿基坦的埃莉诺]] <br>
20. [[赫德嘉·馮·賓根|赫德嘉·馮·賓根]] <br>
21. [[彼得羅妮拉·德·米斯|彼得羅妮拉·德·米斯]] <br>
22. [[克里斯蒂娜·德·皮桑|克里斯蒂娜·德·皮桑]] <br>
23. [[伊莎貝拉·埃斯特|伊莎貝拉·埃斯特]] <br>
24. [[伊丽莎白一世|伊丽莎白一世]]  <br>
25. [[阿尔泰米西娅·真蒂莱斯基|阿尔泰米西娅·真蒂莱斯基]] <br>
26. {{link-en|安娜·瑪莉亞·范·舒爾曼|Anna Maria van Schurman}}<br>
27. [[安妮·哈钦森|安妮·哈钦森]] <br>
28. [[萨卡加维亚|萨卡加维亚]] <br>
29. [[卡羅琳·赫歇爾|卡羅琳·赫歇爾]] <br>
30. [[玛丽·沃斯通克拉夫特|玛丽·沃斯通克拉夫特]] <br>
31. [[索杰纳·特鲁思|索杰纳·特鲁思]] <br>
32. [[苏珊·安东尼|苏珊·安东尼]] <br>
33. [[伊麗莎白·布萊克威爾|伊麗莎白·布萊克威爾]] <br>
34. [[埃米莉·狄更生|埃米莉·狄更生]] <br>
35. [[埃塞尔·史密斯_(作曲家)|埃塞尔·史密斯]] <br>
36. [[山額夫人|山額夫人]] <br>
37. [[娜塔莉·克利福德·巴尼|娜塔莉·克利福德·巴尼]] <br>
38. [[弗吉尼亚·吴尔夫|弗吉尼亚·吴尔夫]] <br>
39. [[喬治亞·歐姬芙|喬治亞·歐姬芙]]
{{Div col end}}

== 参考文献 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 参考书目 ==

* Chicago, Judy. ''The Dinner Party: From Creation to Preservation''. London: Merrell (2007). {{ISBN|1-85894-370-1}}[[国际标准书号|国际标准书号]] {{link-en|Special:BookSources/1-85894-370-1}}.

== 更多阅读 ==

* Chicago, Judy. ''The Dinner Party: A Symbol of our Heritage.'' New York: Anchor (1979). {{ISBN|0-385-14567-5}}[[国际标准书号|国际标准书号]] {{link-en|Special:BookSources/0-385-14567-5}}
* Chicago, Judy. ''Embroidering our Heritage: The Needlework of The Dinner Party.'' New York: Anchor (1980) {{ISBN|0-385-14569-1}}
* Chicago, Judy. ''Through The Flower: My Struggle as A Woman Artist.'' Lincoln: Authors Choice Press (2006). {{ISBN|0-595-38046-8}}[[国际标准书号|国际标准书号]] {{link-en|Special:BookSources/0-595-38046-8}}
* Gerhard, Jane F. ''The Dinner Party: Judy Chicago and the Power of Popular Feminism, 1970-2007.'' Athens, GA: The University of Georgia Press (2013). {{ISBN|0-820-34457-5}}[[国际标准书号|国际标准书号]] {{link-en|Special:BookSources/0-820-34457-5}}
* Jones, Amelia. ''Sexual Politics: Judy Chicago's Dinner Party in Feminist Art History.'' Berkeley: University of California Press (1996). {{ISBN|0-520-20565-0}}[[国际标准书号|国际标准书号]] {{link-en|Special:BookSources/0-520-20565-0}}

== 外部链接 ==

* [http://www.brooklynmuseum.org/eascfa/dinner_party/index.php ''The Dinner Party''] {{Wayback|url=http://www.brooklynmuseum.org/eascfa/dinner_party/index.php |date=20150705085112 }} exhibition website from the Brooklyn Museum, including a searchable database of all the women represented.
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20070429010241/http://www.throughtheflower.org/page.php?p=10&n=2 ''The Dinner Party''] from Chicago's non-profit organization, Through the Flower.

=== 影片 ===

* {{YouTube|3X6ZsumBiuA|CAFKA.TV's coverage of the opening of the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art, the permanent home of Judy Chicago's ''Dinner Party''}} 28 March 2007
* {{YouTube|O1jxdiuSkRk|Judy Chicago's ''The Dinner Party'' at the Brooklyn Museum}} Video tour of the work and part of the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art by James Kalm . 28 March 2007. Accessed September 2009.
* {{YouTube|9yMtdWxAc60|''The Dinner Party'' – A Tour of The Exhibition}} 41-minute video where Judy Chicago personally takes viewers on a tour of ''The Dinner Party'', with explanations of how the work was created, as well as special focus on certain place settings. 3 October 2012. Accessed 21 July 2013.
* ''Right Out of History: Judy Chicago'', Phoenix Learning Group (2008) (DVD)
{{Authority control}}
[[Category:女性主義與歷史|Category:女性主義與歷史]]
[[Category:1996年書籍|Category:1996年書籍]]
[[Category:1979年作品|Category:1979年作品]]