{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Callithomia
| authority = Bates, 1862
| image = Callithomia lenea agrippina.JPG
| image_caption = 草毛斑綃蝶(林綃蝶)<br />''Callithomia lenea agrippina''♂
| type_species = [[斑綃蝶|斑綃蝶]]<br />''Callithomia alexirrhoe''
| type_species_authority = Bates, 1862
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共3種，詳見正文。
| synonyms =
* ''Cleodis'' <small>Boisduval 1870</small>
* ''Corbulis'' <small>Boisduval 1870</small>
* 林綃蝶屬 ''Epithomia'' <small>Godman & Salvin 1879</small>
* ''Leithomia'' <small>Masters 1973</small>
}}

'''斑綃蝶屬'''（學名：''Callithomia''）是[[蛺蝶科|蛺蝶科]][[斑蝶亞科|斑蝶亞科]][[綃蝶族|綃蝶族]]中的一個[[屬_(生物)|屬]]。物種分佈於[[新熱帶界|新熱帶界]]。幼蟲取食[[苦苣苔科|苦苣苔科]]植物<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2010. Callithomia Godman & Salvin 1879 TS = Ithomia adelphina Bates, 1866 (currently viewed as a subspecies of H. virginiana). Version 21 July 2010 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Callithomia/27610/2010.07.21 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Callithomia/27610/2010.07.21 |date=20190919123837 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}</ref>。

== 物種 ==
* [[斑綃蝶|斑綃蝶]] ''Callithomia alexirrhoe''
** 水斑綃蝶 ''C. a. hydra''
** 巴拿馬斑綃蝶 ''C. a. panamensis''
** 素斑綃蝶 ''C. a. schulzi''
* [[六斑綃蝶|六斑綃蝶]] ''Callithomia hezia''
** 多斑綃蝶 ''C. h. phagesia''
** 霧斑綃蝶 ''C. h. villula''
* [[草毛斑綃蝶|草毛斑綃蝶]] ''Callithomia lenea''
** 林綃蝶 ''C. l. agrippina''
** 粉林綃蝶 ''C. l. alpho''
** 迷林綃蝶 ''C. l. methonella''

== 參考文獻 ==
{{reflist}}
* Lamas G ed. 2004. Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2008. Callithomia H. W. Bates 1862. Cleodis Boisduval 1870 (as a subgenus of Xanthocleis), junior objective synonym, Corbulis Boisduval 1870 currently viewed as a subjective junior synonym, Epithomia Godman & Salvin 1879, Leithomia Masters 1973 (as a subgenus of Callithomia), unavailable, ICZN Art. 13.3 (no type species designated). Version 29 April 2008 (temporary). http://tolweb.org/Callithomia/69991/2008.04.29 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Callithomia/69991/2008.04.29 |date=20191130155357 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

{{Commons category|Callithomia}}

{{斑蝶亞科}}
{{Taxonbar}}
[[Category:綃蝶族|B]]
[[Category:斑綃蝶屬|*]]
[[Category:_1862年描述的分类群|B]]