{{Occupational hazards}}

'''设计保障安全'''（Safety by design）是一個概念及運動，鼓勵[[營建管理|營建管理]]者及[[產品設計|產品設計]]者在設計開發階段就將健康及安全風險納入設計考量。此概念支持[[品質|品質]]、程序及成本的觀點，安全性在設計階段就已納入考慮<ref>Behm M, 2005, Linking Construction Fatalities to the Design for Construction Safety Concept, Safety Science, Number 43, Pages 589-611</ref><ref>Churcher D W, Alwani-Starr G M,Incorporating construction health and safety into the design process”, Implementation of Health and Safety in Construction Sites, Alvels, Dias & Coble (eds), ISBN 90-5410-847-9, 1996</ref><ref>ECI 2000 Designing for Safety and Health, Proceedings of the ECI/CIB/HSE international Conference, London, European Construction Institute, Loughborough, ed A G F Gibb, June 245pp ECI, Publications</ref><ref>Gambatese JA,  Hinze J and Haas C, Tool to Design for Construction Worker Safety, Journal of Architectural Engineering, Volume 3, Part 1, Pages 32-42, 1997</ref><ref>Gambatese JA, 2003, Safety in design: A Proactive Approach to Construction Worker Safety and Health, Applied Occupational and Environmental Hygiene, Vol 18 (5): pp 339-342</ref><ref>Gambatese JA, Hinze J, Addressing Construction Worker Safety in the Design Phase – Designing for worker Safety, Automation in Construction, Volume 8, Issue 6, Pages 643-649, August 1999</ref><ref>Hecker S, Gambatese J, Weinstein M, Designing for Worker Safety- Moving the Construction Safety Process Upstream, Professional Safety, Pages 32-44, September 2005</ref>。

==设计保障安全(建築工地)==
有量文獻表明，建築工地上的許多事故都與安全帶的設計有關。在設計階段[[危害消除|危害消除]]比降低危害更有效。級別控制，例如替換，隔離，應用工程或管理控製或使用個人防護衣服或設備。因此，設計師在預防工作場所危害方面的作用吸引了研究人員的關注。大量案例研究和示例可在可供設計人員用於安全設計的各種工具和技術不能僅依賴於主承包商。讓所有利益相關者，包括客戶，設計師和分包商共同承擔安全責任，將更加有效 <ref name="#1">Bong et al, The designer’s role in workplace health and safety in the construction industry: postharmonized regulations in South Australia, International Journal of Construction Management, 2015, Vol. 15, No. 4, 276287, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15623599.2015.1094850 </ref>。

==立法==
歐洲立法要求營建設計者在設計者就考慮風險，減少建造時{{link-en|對建筑工人的危害|Construction site safety#Hazards to construction workers}}，並配合像移动工地指令（英國的CDM法規）中的階段<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.hse.gov.uk/construction/cdm.htm |title=Health and Safety Executive CDM |accessdate=2015-04-21 |archive-date=2015-04-25 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150425151212/http://www.hse.gov.uk/construction/cdm.htm |dead-url=no }}</ref>,此概念符合法律的要求。在英國，建築設計管理（CDM）該法規僅在1995年實施。但是，設計人員不想承擔額外的不當責任<ref name="#1"/>。

許多[[非政府组织|非政府组织]]是為了支持此一目的而成立，主要是在英國、澳洲及美國<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.saferdesign.org/Pages/default.aspx |title=Safer Design |access-date=2015-04-21 |archive-date=2013-04-15 |archive-url=https://archive.is/20130415184534/http://www.saferdesign.org/Pages/default.aspx |dead-url=no }}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/swa/HealthSafety/SafeDesign/ |title=Safe Work Australia |access-date=2015-04-21 |archive-date=2009-12-14 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20091214053507/http://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/swa/HealthSafety/SafeDesign/ |dead-url=yes }}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |url=https://secure.sph.harvard.edu/ccpe/programs.cfm?CSID=SDC0210&pg=cluster&CLID=1 |title=Harvard University School of Public health |access-date=2015-04-21 |archive-date=2010-08-16 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20100816172545/https://secure.sph.harvard.edu/ccpe/programs.cfm?CSID%3DSDC0210%26pg%3Dcluster%26CLID%3D1 |dead-url=no }}</ref>。

有些{{link-en|公證單位|Notified Body}}提供測試及設計驗證服務，確認[[守规|符合]]像[[美國機械工程師學會|美國機械工程師學會]]等機構訂定的[[安全標準|安全標準]]<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.tuv.com/en/corporate/business_customers/plants_machinery_1/pressure_equipment_2/asme_1/asme.html |title=Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspection According to ASME |accessdate=2015-04-21 |archive-date=2017-01-14 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170114072952/http://www.tuv.com/en/corporate/business_customers/plants_machinery_1/pressure_equipment_2/asme_1/asme.html |dead-url=yes }}</ref>。

== 參考資料 ==
{{Reflist|2}}

{{職業安全與健康}}

[[Category:安全工程|Category:安全工程]]