{{noteTA
|G1=Movie
}}
{{Infobox film
| name           = 紅狗背包客
| image          = Red Dog film poster.jpg
| alt            =
| caption        =
| director       = [[Kriv_Stenders|Kriv Stenders]]
| producer       = [[Nelson_Woss|Nelson Woss]]<br / > [[Julie_Ryan|Julie Ryan]]
| writer         = [[Daniel_Taplitz|Daniel Taplitz]]
| based on       = {{based on|''[[Red_Dog_(novel)|Red Dog]]''|[[Louis_de_Bernières|Louis de Bernières]]}}
| starring       = {{link-en|Koko|Koko (dog)}}<br>[[喬許·盧卡斯|喬許·盧卡斯]]<br />{{link-en|瑞秋·泰勒|Rachael Taylor}}<br>{{link-en|約翰·巴克萊 (演員)|John Batchelor (actor)|約翰·巴克萊}}
| music          = [[Cezary_Skubiszewski|Cezary Skubiszewski]]
| cinematography = [[Geoffrey_Hall|Geoffrey Hall]]
| editing        = [[Jill_Bilcock|Jill Bilcock]]
| studio         =
| distributor    = [[威秀電影|威秀電影]]
| runtime        = 92分鐘
| country        = {{AUS}}
| language       = [[英語|英語]]<br>[[意大利語|意大利語]]<br>[[塞尔維亞語|塞尔維亞語]]<br>[[俄語|俄語]]<br>[[波蘭語|波蘭語]]
| budget         = [[A$|A$]]850萬美元 
| gross          = A$2100萬美元 <ref name="Inside Film"/>
}}
《'''紅狗背包客'''》（''Red Dog''）是一部2011年的[[澳洲電影|澳洲電影]]，由Kriv Stenders導演，Nelson Woss和Julie Ryan監製。劇情改編自以真實故事寫成的小說「紅狗」。<ref>{{cite news|url=http://www.theage.com.au/national/real-magic-of-red-dog-alias-koko-comes-from-within-and-cant-be-trained-20110731-1i6gv.html|title=Real magic of Red Dog, alias Koko, comes from within and can't be trained|last=Webb|first=Carolyn|date=2011-08-01|work=[[The_Age|The Age]]|publisher=[[Fairfax_Media|Fairfax Media]]|accessdate=2011-08-04}}</ref>2011年紅狗背包客獲得《Inside 電影獎》九項提名，贏得包括《最有特色電影》等七座獎項。

==劇情== 
1979年的某一晚，貨車司機湯瑪士（[[盧克·福特|盧克·福特]]）來到[[西澳大利亞州|西澳大利亞州]]的丹皮爾。在進入小鎮裡的酒吧後，他看到一群人影，其中一個人握著一支槍。他以為自己目睹了一場謀殺案而衝進另一個房間，在那裡他看到一個人正試著將一個看起來生了病的狗（Koko）放到地上。在湯瑪士的面前，這群人無法替這隻狗安樂死，因而回到了酒吧的吧台。
<br />
一名叫傑克．柯林斯的小鎮名人告訴他說這隻狗的名字叫做紅狗（Red Dog）並開始敘述起牠的傳奇故事。初到丹皮爾，這隻狗與許多哈默斯利鋼鐵廠的礦工結交成為朋友，這些人主要的工作是開採鐵礦石。每一位礦工都向湯瑪士訴說他們與紅狗的故事，在這個階段，紅狗沒有主人，牠是屬於工廠裡每一個人的。
<br />
接著其中一個人說，有一個叫約翰．葛蘭的美國人（喬許魯卡斯飾）後來成為了紅狗的主人。約翰是一個公車司機，負責開往哈默斯利鋼鐵廠的路線，後來他也跟工廠裡的秘書萳茜（瑞秋泰勒飾）開始一段浪漫史。在丹皮爾生活兩年後，他向萳茜求婚。在求婚那一晚，約翰囑咐紅狗，要牠在萳茜的車屋回來之前都要待在家裡。
<br />
隔天一早，約翰騎著機車從萳茜的車屋返途時，在路上發生了意外。約翰的意外打擊了小鎮中的每個人，當中也包括萳茜，而他們因而忘了紅狗的存在。在葬禮的三天後，他們發現紅狗仍然待在約翰要他待著的位子。三週後，紅狗決定啟程去尋找約翰，牠以哈默斯利鋼鐵廠開始為第一個地點，接著是酒吧及其他約翰可能會去的地方，直到所有丹皮爾的地方都找過了。牠接著開始橫越包括從柏斯到達爾文的[[皮爾布拉|皮爾布拉]]地區（位於澳洲西北部）。甚至還有傳言說紅狗也搭上往日本的船，只為了找尋約翰。最後，牠感到一陣悲哀，因此牠決定回到丹皮爾。一到丹皮爾，牠便來到萳茜住的車屋公園，萳茜見到牠也喜心若狂。然而，車屋公園的管理員，禁止公園裡有任何狗的存在，甚至向萳茜威脅要拿槍射紅狗。萳茜和約翰在哈默斯利的朋友們開始在丹皮爾社區為紅狗尋求支持，在有幾名礦工參與的「文明的對談」後，公園管理員和他的妻子離開了，但留了他們的貓，紅貓（Red Cat）。一場紅狗與紅貓之間的大戰隨之而來，而最後，牠們化解了存在於牠們之間的差異性（狗與貓）而成為朋友。
<br />
時間回到現在，礦工喬可（洛汗尼可）將大家聚集在一起並問，為什麼他們要一個「人」的雕像（威廉．丹皮爾）坐落在他們的小鎮，只因為他是第一個發現這個小鎮的人並評價這個地方「有很多蒼蠅」呢？並且建議大家應該將雕像換成一個能代表小鎮的人物–紅狗。在之後的慶祝之後，在沒有任何人注意到的情況下，紅狗爬了起來並走出酒吧。發現到紅狗離開後，小鎮的每個人開始動身尋找牠，最後發現牠躺在約翰的墳前安息了。
<br />
一年後，湯瑪士帶了一隻新的小狗，一隻新的「紅狗」。而小鎮也為紅狗的雕像揭幕，這個雕像至今仍杵立在這個小鎮當中。

==演員==
*{{link-en|Koko|Koko (dog)}}飾演紅狗
*[[喬許·盧卡斯|喬許·盧卡斯]]飾演約翰·葛蘭
*{{link-en|瑞秋·泰勒|Rachael Taylor}}飾演萳茜·葛蕾
*{{link-en|約翰·巴克萊 (演員)|John Batchelor (actor)|約翰·巴克萊}}飾演皮托
*[[諾亞·泰勒|諾亞·泰勒]]飾演傑克·柯林斯
*[[姬莎·卡索-休斯|姬莎·卡索-休斯]]飾演蘿莎
*{{link-en|羅恩·卡門|Loene Carmen}}飾演毛倫·柯林斯
*[[盧克·福特|盧克·福特]]飾演湯姆斯
*{{link-en|洛汗·尼可|Rohan Nichol}}飾演喬可
*蒂芬妮·琳德飾演派特絲
*[[科斯塔·羅寧|科斯塔·羅寧]]飾演查姆巴斯奇
*{{link-en|尼爾·皮格特|Neil Pigot}}飾演瑞克
*艾蒙·法倫飾演戴夫
*亞瑟·安琪兒飾演法諾
===客串===
*{{link-en|比爾·韓特|Bill Hunter (actor)}}

==原著==
{{main|Red Dog (Pilbara)}}
這隻橫越西澳大利亞皮爾布拉地區的知名'''''紅狗（Red Dog）'''''是澳洲牧羊犬與黃牛狗的混種狗。而紅狗最常往返停留的城鎮，丹皮爾，豎立著一座以牠的傳奇所刻立的雕像。<ref name="lpwa">{{cite book | title=Western Australia| last=Ashworth| first=Susie| coauthors=Rebecca Turner, Simone Egger| year=2004| pages=203–204| publisher=Lonely Planet| isbn=1740594592}}</ref><ref name="dampi">{{cite news|url=http://www.smh.com.au/news/Western-Australia/Dampier/2005/02/17/1108500208380.html|title=Dampier|accessdate=2008-04-06|date=2004-02-08|work=The Sydney Morning Herald }}</ref>
<br />
紅狗被認為是在1971年出生在帕拉卜杜（Paraburdoo）<ref name="pilbw">{{cite book | title=Red Dog The Pilbara Wanderer| last=Duckett| first=Beverley| year=1989}}</ref>，聽過紅狗的人說牠有過很多不同的名字，包括布雷（Bluey）、哈哈（Tally Ho）以及西北方之犬。<ref name="villa">{{cite book | title=It Takes a Dog to Raise a Village: True Stories of Remarkable Canine Vagabonds| url=https://archive.org/details/ittakesdogtorais00ruth| last=Gordon| first=Ruth| year=2000| pages=[https://archive.org/details/ittakesdogtorais00ruth/page/137 137]–151| publisher=Willow Creek Press| isbn=1572233001}}</ref>
<br />
1979年，在紅狗過世後不久，澳洲作家萳茜．吉萊絲皮（Nancy Gillespie）在皮爾布拉地區的幾位人士的幫助下，如富康達克特（Beverly Duckett）為紅狗下了註語「皮爾布拉流浪者」<ref>{{cite web|url=http://catalogue.nla.gov.au/Record/4497915?lookfor=red%20dog&offset=2&max=87 |title=Red Dog : the Pilbara wanderer / by Beverley Duckett | National Library of Australia |publisher=Catalogue.nla.gov.au |date= |accessdate=2012-06-08}}</ref>，寫下了有關紅狗的傳奇軼聞與詩歌。<ref>{{cite web |url=http://catalogue.nla.gov.au/Record/1062450 |title=Red Dog / Nancy Gillespie | National Library of Australia |publisher=Catalogue.nla.gov.au |date= |accessdate=2012-06-08 |archive-date=2011-06-13 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110613221824/http://catalogue.nla.gov.au/Record/1062450 |dead-url=no }}</ref>
<br />
紅狗以及牠的雕像吸引了許多人的注意，因而特別到丹皮爾一遊，其中包括英國作家路易．德貝爾尼耶（Louis de Bernières），他因此寫下了一本以紅狗為靈感的書《紅狗》<ref name="ldb">{{cite book | title=Red Dog| url=https://archive.org/details/reddog00debe| last=De Bernières| first=Louis| year=2001| publisher=Pantheon Books| isbn=0375421556}}</ref>。此外，也有一間四輪驅動車俱樂部以紅狗的事蹟命為店名。<ref name="4wd">{{cite web|url=http://www.reddog4x4club.asn.au/aboutme.htm|title=Red Dog 4WD Club|accessdate=2008-04-06|date=2008-04-05|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20080108033708/http://www.reddog4x4club.asn.au/aboutme.htm|archivedate=2008-01-08|deadurl=yes}}</ref>

==評語==
{{As of |2011|11|17}} the film made more than {{AUD}}21 million at the Australian box office since opening in August 2011.<ref name="Inside Film">{{cite web|last=Dallas|first=Sam|title=Red Dog triumphs at 2011 Jameson IF Awards Sydney|url=http://if.com.au/2011/11/17/article/Red-Dog-triumphs-at-2011-Jameson-IF-Awards-Sydney/VZAITIUDMS.html|publisher=Inside Film|accessdate=2011-11-18|date=2011-11-17}}</ref>

''Red Dog'' is the eighth-highest grossing Australian film of all time. 11 days after opening, ''Red Dog'' became the highest grossing Australian film of 2011.<ref>{{cite web|last=Dallas|first=Sam|title=Red Dog: highest grossing Australian film of 2011|url=http://if.com.au/2011/08/15/article/NJHYHCGTER.html|publisher=Inside Film (IF)|accessdate=2012-03-14|deadurl=yes|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20120328165410/http://if.com.au/2011/08/15/article/NJHYHCGTER.html|archivedate=2012-03-28}}</ref>

''Red Dog'' was officially released on [[DVD|DVD]], [[Blu-ray_Disc|Blu-ray]] and digital download on 1 December 2011 in Australia.

The ''Red Dog'' DVD is the biggest-selling Australian DVD of all time.<ref>{{cite web|last=Bodey|first=Michael|title=Local Hit Reigns Again As Top Selling DVD|url=http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/opinion/local-hit-reigns-again-as-top-selling-dvd/story-e6frg9sx-1226265114081|publisher=The Australian|accessdate=2012-03-14}}</ref>The DVD is also the third-highest selling DVD of all time in Australia behind ''Avatar'' (first) and ''Finding Nemo'' (second).

The red dog actor, Koko the Red, has died at the age of 7 from a heart condition (2012-12-18).

The film has not been as successful overseas as it was in Australia.

The film opened at #25 in the United Kingdom, earning just £24,727 from 56 screens ( 24–26 February 2012)<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://industry.bfi.org.uk/article/17826/UK-Box-Office-24---26-February-2012 |title=存档副本 |access-date=2013-09-18 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131111073627/http://industry.bfi.org.uk/article/17826/UK-Box-Office-24---26-February-2012 |archive-date=2013-11-11 |dead-url=yes }}</ref>and opened at #5 at the New Zealand box office, earning NZ$124,447 from 72 screens.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://boxofficemojo.com/intl/newzealand/?yr=2011&wk=48&currency=local&p=.htm |title=存档副本 |accessdate=2013-09-18 |archive-date=2013-11-11 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131111074428/http://boxofficemojo.com/intl/newzealand/?yr=2011&wk=48&currency=local&p=.htm |dead-url=no }}</ref>The film has been a DVD only release in territories such as Germany and Argentina<ref>http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0803061/releaseinfo</ref>but has been acquired by independent distributor Arc Entertainment in a deal for all media in the United States, though there is "no word on a theatrical release date or strategy" in the announcement.<ref>http://twitter.com/michaelbodey/status/207654089973178369</ref>

Critical response has also been more mixed overseas than in Australia.

The Guardian's Peter Bradshaw (U.K.) asked "Is it a children's story for adults? Or an adult's story for children?" and stated that the film "comes across like a well-meaning PG-certification of the real world."<ref>http://www.guardian.co.uk/film/2012/feb/23/red-dog-review</ref>The Hollywood Reporter's Megan Lehmann (U.S.A.) called the film "genial but unsophisticated fare, with plenty of hammy acting and broad humor" and that it "borders on naivety, and some of the more roughly drawn characters begin to grate early" though stated that the film "achieves a kind of existential purity. But then the two-legged actors butt in and the moment is lost.<ref>"http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/review/red-dog-film-review-213540</ref>

Review aggregator [[Rotten_Tomatoes|Rotten Tomatoes]] reported that 86% of critics reviewed the film positively, with an average score of 7.5/10.<ref>[http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/771243442/ Rotten Tomatoes]</ref>

Phillip French of ''[[The_Guardian|The Guardian]]'' said that the film is "guaranteed to bring tears and laughter".<ref>{{cite web|last=French|first=Phillip|title=Red Dog - Review|url=http://www.guardian.co.uk/film/2012/feb/26/red-dog-review?INTCMP=SRCH|publisher=The Guardian|accessdate=2012-03-14}}</ref>

Garry Couzens of The Digital Fix said that, "I saw this film and ''[[War_Horse_(film)|War Horse]]'' within a day of each other, and felt that ''Red Dog'' achieved much of what Spielberg's film was aiming at, with much less sentimentality, anthropomorphism and self-importance, more laughs and with an hour's less running time."<ref>{{cite web|last=Couzens|first=Garry|title=Red Dog|url=http://film.thedigitalfix.com/content/id/75198/red-dog.html|accessdate=2012-03-14|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131111080150/http://film.thedigitalfix.com/content/id/75198/red-dog.html|archive-date=2013-11-11|dead-url=yes}}</ref>

Mark Adams of the ''[[Sunday_Mirror|Sunday Mirror]]'' gave ''Red Dog'' a three star rating and said, "this canine true story is an engaging, feel-good Australian family drama about a dog." Adams opined that it boasted a strong cast and felt that overall it was "clichéd but charming".<ref>{{cite news|last=Adams|first=Mark|title=Your movies|accessdate=2012-02-29|newspaper=[[Sunday_Mirror|Sunday Mirror]]|publisher=[[Trinity_Mirror|Trinity Mirror]]|date=2012-02-26|page=39}}</ref>

Craig Mathieson of [[Special_Broadcasting_Service|SBS]] awarded the film three stars out of five, observing that the film "passes through various emotional states without ever being too taxing" and felt that Red Dog was "the most widely appealing Australian film since ''Bran Nue Dae''".<ref>{{cite news | title=Red Dog (review) |date=| work=[[Special_Broadcasting_Service|SBS]] |publisher= | url= http://www.sbs.com.au/films/movie/10766/Red-Dog |first=Craig |last=Matheison | accessdate=2013-02-14}}</ref>

==獲獎==
''Red Dog'' won Best Film and the Australian Film Institute (AFI) Member's Choice Award at the [http://aacta.org/winners-nominees/2011.aspx 2011 Australian Academy of Cinema and Television Arts (AACTA) Awards].

''Red Dog'' dominated the 2011 [[Inside_Film_Awards|Inside Film Awards]]. Nominated in nine categories, it won seven. It received the Best Feature Film award, as well as:<ref name="2011 IF Awards">{{cite news|title=Red Dog is top dog at IF awards|url=http://www.theage.com.au/entertainment/movies/red-dog-is-top-dog-at-if-awards-20111117-1nk7d.html|accessdate=2011-11-18|newspaper=The Age|date=17 November  2011|agency=AAP}}</ref>
* Best Actor – [[Josh_Lucas|Josh Lucas]]
* Best Direction – Kriv Stenders
* Best Script
* Best Cinematography
* Best Music
* Best Box Office Achievement

It missed winning Best Editing and Best Production Design.<ref name="Inside Film"/>

''Red Dog'' won the [http://www.smh.com.au/entertainment/movies/putting-red-dog-in-his-place-20111020-1m8lg.html Grand Prize Award for Best Narrative Feature] at the Heartland Film Festival 2011. The Award included a cash prize of $100,000.

In 2012 [[Koko_(dog)|Koko]] won the Award for [http://www.heraldsun.com.au/entertainment/aussie-canine-koko-wins-acting-award/story-e6frf96f-1226271287955 Best Dog in a Foreign Film] at the inaugural Golden Collar Awards in Los Angeles. [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NAL0TKYkLD8&context=C43b0a2aADvjVQa1PpcFP06mjnxVXN1pzHAIQzSXrtG3JhesTYzUM= Koko's acceptance speech] was played at the ceremony because he was unable to attend the event.

==影展==
''紅狗背包客''一片曾參與了不少的影展，包括：
*2011年柏林國際影展（Berlin International Film Festival 2011）
*2011年哈特蘭德影展（Heartland Film Festival 2011）
*2011年以色列影展（Israeli Film Festival 2011）
*2011年謝菲爾德青年人影展（Sheffield Showcomotion Young People's Film Festival 2011）
*2011年墨爾本國際影展（Melbourne International Film Festival 2011）
*2011年因弗內斯影展（Inverness Film Festival 2011）
*2011年釜山影展（Busan Film Festival 2011）
*2011年夏威夷影展（Hawaii Film Festival 2011）
*2011年塔林黑夜影展（Tallinn Black Nights Film Festival 2011）
*2012年聖巴巴拉影展（Santa Barbara Film Festival 2012）
*2012年北京國際影展（Beijing International Film Festival 2012）
*2012年波多黎各影展（Rincon Puerto Rico Film Festival 2012）
*2012戛納影迷展（Cannes Cinephiles 2012）

==音樂==
2012年3月宣布了一項消息<ref>{{cite web|last=Hardie|first=Giles|title=Red Dog the musical|url=http://www.smh.com.au/entertainment/musicals/sit-speak-sing-its-red-dog-the-musical-20120321-1vjng.html|work=Website|publisher=Sydney Morning Herald|accessdate=2012-05-17}}</ref>，那就是紅狗背包客的故事可能會被製作成音樂舞台劇。而這齣音樂舞台劇由澳洲劇院製作人[https://web.archive.org/web/20131111074359/http://www.gordonfrostorganisation.com/about_us.html 約翰．弗斯特]及《紅狗背包客》製作人尼爾森．伍斯進行規劃。

==參考==
{{reflist|30em}}

==外部連結==
* {{IMDb title|0803061|Red Dog}}
* [http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/771243442/ Red Dog at Rotten Tomatoes]

{{AACTA Award Best Film 2010–2029}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Red Dog}}
[[Category:2011年澳大利亞電影作品|Category:2011年澳大利亞電影作品]]
[[Category:澳大利亞喜劇片|Category:澳大利亞喜劇片]]
[[Category:澳大利亞劇情片|Category:澳大利亞劇情片]]
[[Category:2010年代喜劇片|1]]
[[Category:2011年劇情片|Category:2011年劇情片]]
[[Category:2010年代喜劇劇情片|1]]
[[Category:真人真事改編電影|Category:真人真事改編電影]]
[[Category:1970年代背景電影|Category:1970年代背景電影]]
[[Category:喜劇劇情片|Category:喜劇劇情片]]
[[Category:狗主角故事|Category:狗主角故事]]
[[Category:英語電影|Category:英語電影]]