{{Infobox person
| name        = 鲁道夫·阿格里科拉
| image       = Rudolf Agricola - Imagines philologorum.jpg
| alt         = 300px
| caption     = 鲁道夫·阿格里科拉像
| birth_date  = 1444年 
| birth_place = 
| death_date  = 1485年
| death_place = 
| ethnicity   = [[荷兰人|荷兰人]]
| other_names = 
| known_for   = 《论逻辑论证的运用》
| occupation  = [[学者|学者]]
}}
'''鲁道夫·阿格里科拉'''（Rodolphus Agricola，{{bd|1444年||1485年|}}），[[文艺复兴时期|文艺复兴时期]][[欧洲|欧洲]][[荷兰|荷兰]][[学者|学者]]。他在[[意大利|意大利]]从事研究工作。后来发表[[诗歌|诗歌]]，[[演说词|演说词]]，古典著作翻译和评注。他的《论逻辑论证的运用》对[[文艺复兴|文艺复兴]]的[[修辞学|修辞学]]有所贡献。<ref>Sandra Sider.（2007）. ''Handbook to Life in Renaissance Europe''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195330847.</ref>

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

== 扩展阅读 ==
* Agricola, R., from "Three Books Concerning Dialectical Invention." ''Renaissance Debates on Rhetoric.'' ed. & trans. W.A. Rebhorn. pp. 42–56. Ithaca, NY: Cornell U P. 2000.
*  Gallaudet University Library: [https://web.archive.org/web/20051220092919/http://library.gallaudet.edu/dr/faq-earliest-deaf.html Earliest Known Deaf People]
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20081013083842/http://faculty.ed.uiuc.edu/westbury/textcol/HAMILTO1.html "From Dialectic to Didactic."] Hamilton, David.
* The History Guide: [http://www.historyguide.org/intellect/humanism.html Renaissance Humanism]
* New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia: [http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/01231b.htm Rudolph Agricola]
* ''Rodolphus Agricola Phrisius (1444–1485). Proceedings of the International Conference at the University of Groningen 28–30 October 1985'', eds. Fokke Akkerman and Arjo Vanderjagt (Leiden: Brill, 1988).
* ''Wessel Gansfort (1419–1489) and Northern Humanism'', eds. Fokke Akkerman, Gerda Huisman, and Arjo Vanderjagt (Leiden: Brill, 1993).
* ''Rudolf Agricola 1444-1485. Protagonist des nordeuropäischen Humanismus zum 550. Geburtstag'', ed. Wilhelm Kühlman (Bern: Peter Lang, 1994).
* ''Northern Humanism in European Context. From the 'Adwert Academy' to Ubbo Emmius'', ed. Fokke Akkerman, Arjo Vanderjagt, and Adrie van der Laan (Leiden: Brill, 1999).
* Agricola's logic and rhetoric are treated in Peter Mack, ''Renaissance Argument. Valla and Agricola in the Traditions of Rhetoric and Dialectic'', (Leiden: Brill, 1993); see also Ann Moss, ''Renaissance Truth and the Latin Language Turn'' (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003.
* For Agricola's knowledge of Hebrew: A.J. Vanderjagt, 'Wessel Gansfort (1419–1489) and Rudolph Agricola (1443<sup>?</sup>-1485): Piety and Hebrew', in ''Frömmigkeit - Theologie - Frömmigkeitstheologie: Contributions to European Church History. Festschrift für Berndt Hamm zum 60. Geburtstag'', ed. Gudrun Litz, Heidrun Munzert, and Roland Liebenberg (Leiden: Brill, 2005), pp. 159–172.
* Gerda H. Huisman, ''Rudolph Agricola: A Bibliography of Printed Works and Translations'', Nieuwkoop: De Graaf, 1985.
* J.R. McNally, "''Dux illa Directrixque artium'': Rudolph Agricola's Dialectical System," ''Quarterly Journal of Speech'', 52.4 (1966): 337-47.
* J.R. McNally, "''Prima pars dialecticae': The Influence of Agricolan Dialectic upon English Accounts of Invention," ''Renaissance Quarterly'' 21 (1968): 166-77.
* J.R. McNally, "''Rector et dux populi'': Italian Humanists and the Relationship between Rhetoric and Logic," ''Modern Philology 67.2 (1969): 168-76.
* J.R. McNally, "Rudolph Agricola's ''De inventione dialectica libri tres'': A Translation of Selected Chapters," ''Speech Monographs'' 34.4 (1967): 393-422.
* Walter J. Ong, S.J., "Ramus: Method and the Decay of Dialogue: From the Art of Discourse to the Art of Reason." (1958) Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2004. 
* Matthew DeCoursey, "Continental European Rhetoricians, 1400-1600, and Their Influence in Renaissance England," ''British Rhetoricians and Logicians, 1500–1660, First Series'', DLB 236, Detroit: Gale, 2001, pp. 309–343.

{{Authority control}}

[[Category:荷蘭哲學家|Category:荷蘭哲學家]]
[[Category:15世紀哲學家|Category:15世紀哲學家]]