{{translating|[[:en:_Bismanol|:en: Bismanol]]|time=2019-04-06}}

'''铋化锰（Bismanol）''' 是一种磁性合金由[[铋|铋]]和[[锰|锰]] (铋化锰manganese bismuthide)组成， 由[[US_Naval_Ordnance_Laboratory|US Naval Ordnance Laboratory]](美国海军军械实验室)开发。

==历史==
''Bismanol'', a permanent magnet made from [[powder_metallurgy|powder metallurgy]] of Manganese Bismuthide, was developed by the [[US_Naval_Ordnance_Laboratory|US Naval Ordnance Laboratory]] in the early 1950s - at the time of invention it was one of the highest coercive force permanent magnets available, at 3000 [[oersted|oersted]]s.<ref>{{citation| title = Bismanol | date = August 1952| page = 19 | journal = Physics Today|volume = 5| issue = 8| doi = 10.1063/1.3067699  }}</ref> Coercive force reached 3650 oersteds and flux density 4800 by the mid 1950s. The material was generally strong, and stable to shock and vibration, but had a tendency to chip. Slow corrosion of the material occurred under normal conditions.<ref>{{citation| url = http://www.osti.gov/scitech/biblio/4290472| title = BISMANOL PERMANENT MAGNETS, EVALUATION AND PROCESSING | date = 1953| first = E. |last = Adams| first2= W.M. | last2 = Hubbard|work = Naval Ordnance Lab., USA }}</ref>

The material was used to make [[permanent_magnet|permanent magnet]]s for use in small electric motors.<ref>{{cite journal | journal =Rev. Mod. Phys. | volume = 25 | issue =1 | pages = 306–307 | title = A New Permanent Magnet from Powdered Manganese Bismuthide | first =  Edmond | last = Adams | year = 1953 |doi = 10.1103/RevModPhys.25.306| bibcode = 1953RvMP...25..306A }}</ref>

Bismanol magnets have been replaced by [[Neodymium_magnet|Neodymium magnet]]s which are both cheaper and superior in other ways, [[Samarium-Cobalt_magnet|Samarium-Cobalt magnet]]s in more critical applications, and [[Alnico|Alnico]] magnets.{{fact|date=March 2016}}

==参考文献==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:Magnetic_alloys|Category:Magnetic alloys]]
[[Category:Ferromagnetic_materials|Category:Ferromagnetic materials]]
[[Category:Bismuth|Category:Bismuth]]
[[Category:Manganese|Category:Manganese]]
[[Category:Named_alloys|Category:Named alloys]]

{{Alloy-stub}}