{{Infobox hymn
| Name           = 普世欢腾
| OriName        = ''Joy to the World''
| OtherNames     = 普天同慶（[[天主教|天主教]]）
| WordsBy        = [[以撒华滋|以撒华滋]]
| MusicBy        = [[格奧爾格·弗里德里希·亨德爾|格奧爾格·弗里德里希·亨德爾]]
| image          = 
| Produced       = 
| Published      = 
| OrigLanguage   = 
| TranslatedBy   = 
| TranslatedPub  = 
| Beat           = 
| Section        = 4
| TradMelodyName = 
| Audio          = {{Listen|lang=en|filename=Joy_to_the_World.ogg|title=Joy to the World|description=[[鋼琴|鋼琴]]演奏《普世欢腾》}}<br/>
{{Listen|filename=HWW Joy To The World.ogg|title=Joy to the World|description=管弦乐队演奏《普世欢腾》}}<br/>
{{Listen|filename=Joy To The World.ogg|title=Joy to the World|description={{link-en|美军乐队|United States Army Band}}表演《普世欢腾》}}<br/>
{{listen| filename     = Joy-to-the-World_KB.ogg| title        = Joy to the World| description  =Kim Butler表演《普世欢腾》| format       = [[Ogg|Ogg]]
}}
}}
《'''普世欢腾'''》（'''Joy to the World'''）是最著名的[[圣诞颂歌|圣诞颂歌]]之一，歌曲於1719年編寫<ref>{{cite web |title=Joy to the World |url=https://www.carols.org.uk/a27-joy-to-the-world.htm |website=www.carols.org.uk |accessdate=2018-12-05 |archive-date=2021-01-25 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210125031143/https://www.carols.org.uk/a27-joy-to-the-world.htm |dead-url=no }}</ref>，由[[格奧爾格·弗里德里希·亨德爾|格奧爾格·弗里德里希·亨德爾]]譜曲，[[以撒华滋|以撒华滋]]作词。所要传达的信息是欢乐和爱取代了罪与忧愁。<!-- may also be interpreted to be about life after the second coming of Christ.  -->这首圣诗被[[天主教|天主教]]（歌名譯為'''普天同慶'''）及[[新教|新教]]许多教派所广泛传唱。

==歌词==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! 段落 !! [[英文|英文]] !! [[中文|中文]]
|-
| 第一段 || Joy to the world, the Lord is come!<br />
Let earth receive her King;<br />
Let every heart prepare him room,<br />
And heaven and nature sing<br />
And heaven and nature sing<br />
And heaven, and heaven and nature sing.  
|| 
普世歡騰，救主下降！<br />
大地接她君王；<br />
惟願眾心預備地方，<br />
諸天萬物歌唱，<br />
諸天萬物歌唱，<br />
諸天，諸天萬物歌唱。
|-
| 第二段 || Joy to the earth, The Saviour reigns<br />
Let men their songs employ;<br />
While fields and floods, rocks, hills, and plains<br />
Repeat the sounding joy<br />
Repeat the sounding joy<br />
Repeat, repeat the sounding joy. 
||
普世歡騰，主治萬方！<br />
民眾首當歌唱；<br />
沃野洪濤，山石平原 ，<br />
響應歌聲嘹亮，<br />
響應歌聲嘹亮，<br />
響應，響應歌聲嘹亮。<br />
|-
| 第三段 || No more let sins and sorrows grow,<br />
Nor thorns infest the ground;<br />
He comes to make His blessings flow<br />
Far as the curse is found,<br />
Far as the curse is found,<br />
Far as, far as, the curse is found. 
|| 
罪惡憂愁，不容再長！<br />
世途荊棘消亡；<br />
化詛為恩無遠弗屆，<br />
到處主澤流長，<br />
到處主澤流長，<br />
到處，到處主澤流長。<br />
|-
| 第四段 || He rules the world with truth and grace,<br />
And makes the nations prove<br />
The glories of His righteousness,<br />
And wonders of His love,<br />
And wonders of His love,<br />
And wonders, wonders, of His love.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.ylw.mmtr.or.jp/~johnkoji/hymn/xmas/Joytothe.html |title=Joy to the World ylw.mmtr.or.jp |access-date=2009-12-05 |archive-date=2015-11-30 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20151130021315/http://www.ylw.mmtr.or.jp/~johnkoji/hymn/xmas/Joytothe.html |dead-url=no }}</ref>
 || 
主藉真理，恩治萬方，<br />
要使萬邦證明，<br />
上主公義，無限榮光，<br />
主愛奇妙莫名，<br />
主愛奇妙莫名，<br />
主愛，主愛奇妙莫名。<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.jonahome.net/files/zmsg/zmsgc/zhanmeishi/Hymn075.htm |title=075首《普世欢腾歌》 jonahome.net |access-date=2013-08-01 |archive-date=2020-01-16 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200116140200/http://jonahome.net/files/zmsg/zmsgc/zhanmeishi/Hymn075.htm |dead-url=no }}</ref>
|}

<!-- ==Parodies==
Like many well-known songs this song has frequently been parodied. A [[parody|parody]] frequently heard amongst schoolchildren is [[Joy_to_the_World,_Our_Teacher's_Dead|Joy to the World, Our Teacher's Dead]]. [[Nelson_Muntz|Nelson Muntz]] of [[The_Simpsons|The Simpsons]] made this version popular. Children have also written parodies of the song targeting their principals and [[Barney_the_Dinosaur|Barney]]. -->

<!-- ==Trivia==
[[At_Fillmore_East|At Fillmore East]] contains a song entitled You Don't Love Me, which contains a snippet of Joy To The World. -->

==参考文献==
{{Reflist}}

{{-}}
{{聖誕節}}
{{赞美诗新编|主}}
[[Category:聖誕歌曲|Category:聖誕歌曲]]
[[Category:18世纪基督教文献|Category:18世纪基督教文献]]