{{Infobox language
|name=普内语
|nativename=Singsali
|states=[[老挝|老挝]]
|region=[[丰沙里省|丰沙里省]]
|ethnicity=[[贡族|贡族]]
|speakers=45,000
|date=1995–2000
|ref=e18
|familycolor=汉藏语系
|fam2=([[藏缅语族|藏缅语族]])
|fam3=[[缅彝语群|缅彝语群]]
|fam4=[[彝语支|彝语支]]
|fam5=[[彝语南部方言|彝语南部方言]]
|fam6=[[毕苏语群|毕苏语群]]
|fam7=普内–毕苏语
|iso3=pho
|glotto=phun1245
|glottorefname=Phunoi
}}

'''普内语'''是一种分布于[[老挝|老挝]]北部的[[彝语|彝语]]。方言不能互通，可以视作不同的语言：黑夸尼、白夸尼、芒、海探、加松。Bradley在普内语内部划出了6种语言。<ref>Bradley, David (2007). "East and Southeast Asia". In Christopher Moseley, ed. ''Encyclopedia of the World's Endangered Languages''. London and New York: Routledge.</ref>

在[[丰沙里省|丰沙里省]]，普内语分布在[[丰沙里县|丰沙里县]]和[[本代县|本代县]](Kingsada 1999)。

==参考==
{{reflist}}

==更多==
*Boute, Vanina. 2010. [https://www.academia.edu/5191746/Names_and_Territoriality_among_the_Phounoy_How_the_State_creates_Ethnic_Group_Lao_PDR_ Names and Territoriality among the Phounoy: How the State creates Ethnic Group (Lao PDR)], in C. Culas et F. Robinne (eds.), Inter-Ethnic Dynamics in Asia. Considering the Other through ethnonyms, territories and rituals, London: Routledge, pp. 79–99.
*Kingsadā, Thō̜ngphet, and Tadahiko Shintani. 1999. ''Basic Vocabularies of the Languages Spoken in Phongxaly, Lao P.D.R.'' Tokyo: Institute for the Study of Languages and Cultures of Asia and Africa (ILCAA).
*Kingsada, Thongpheth. 2002. Languages and Ethnic Classification in the Lao PDR. International Workshop on the "Cultural Diversity and Conservation in the making of Mainland Southeast Asia and Southwestern China: Regional Dynamics in Past and Present". Luang Prabang, Lao P.D.R.
*戴庆厦. 2018. 老挝普内语研究. 北京: 科学出版社. {{ISBN|9787030567529}}

{{老挝语言}}
{{汉藏语系}}
{{Lolo-Burmese languages}}

[[Category:南部彝语|Category:南部彝语]]
[[Category:老挝语言|Category:老挝语言]]