{{Infobox writer
|name           = 普鲁登修斯
|image          = 
|caption        = 
|birthdate     = 
|birthplace    = 
|deathdate     = 
|deathplace    = 
|occupation     = 诗人
|spouse         =
|parents        =	
|children       =
|genre          = 
|notableworks   = 
}}                         
'''普鲁登修斯'''（约活动于公元4[[世纪|世纪]]至5世纪前后）<ref>Adkins,Lesley Adkins,Roy A.（1998）.''Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195123326.</ref>是[[古罗马|古罗马]]后期的著名[[诗人|诗人]]之一，早年曾研习[[修辞学|修辞学]]。曾任[[律师|律师]]，后开始进行[[文学|文学]]创作，他的作品以[[基督教|基督教]]为中心，内容多变，常于抒情，对后世影响深远。

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

==扩展阅读==
* Catherine Conybeare, "sanctum, lector, percense uolumen: Snakes, Readers, and the Whole Text in Prudentius’ Hamartigenia," in W. Klingshirn and L. Safran (eds), ''The Early Christian Book'' (Washington DC, 2007),  225-240.
* Roy J. Deferrari & James M. Campbell, ''A Concordance of Prudence'', Cambridge Mass. 1932 (réimpr. Hildesheim 1966)
* Pierre-Yves Fux, ''Les sept Passions de Prudence (Peristephanon 2.5.9.11-14). Introduction générale et commentaire'' , 496 pages, Éditions Universitaires Fribourg, 2003
* Michael Roberts, ''Poetry and the Cult of the Martyrs. The Liber Peristephanon of Prudentius'' , Ann Arbor 1993

==外部链接==
{{wikiquote}}
* {{gutenberg author| id=Aurelius+Clemens+Prudentius | name=Prudentius}} - Latin and English of the ''Cathemerinon'' only.
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20070609141520/http://meta.montclair.edu/latintexts/prudentius/ Liber peristephanon] - Latin text.
* [http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/12517c.htm The Catholic Encyclopedia] {{Wayback|url=http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/12517c.htm |date=20121030013802 }}
* [http://www.ccel.org/w/wace/biodict/htm/iii.xvi.cxii.htm The Christian Classics Ethereal Library] {{Wayback|url=http://www.ccel.org/w/wace/biodict/htm/iii.xvi.cxii.htm |date=20050403222747 }}
* [http://www.documentacatholicaomnia.eu/30_10_0348-0413-_Aurelius_Prudentius.html Opera Omnia by Migne Patrologia Latina with analytical indexes] {{Wayback|url=http://www.documentacatholicaomnia.eu/30_10_0348-0413-_Aurelius_Prudentius.html |date=20130427000526 }}
* [http://www.getfeedback.net/kb/orpheus-minor-scales-validation Prudentius framework of personality used to validate psychometric test] {{Wayback|url=http://www.getfeedback.net/kb/orpheus-minor-scales-validation |date=20120222221451 }}

{{Authority control}}

[[Category:罗马西班牙行省人物|Category:罗马西班牙行省人物]]
[[Category:罗马时代诗人|Category:罗马时代诗人]]
[[Category:4世紀羅馬人|Category:4世紀羅馬人]]
[[Category:5世纪罗马人|Category:5世纪罗马人]]
[[Category:奥列里氏族|Category:奥列里氏族]]