{{Infobox deity|type=roman
| image = Detail corner Ornament HildoKrop Oudwijk entrance Utrecht.JPG
| caption =
| name = 良善女神
| god_of = 豐穰之神
}}
'''良善女神'''（{{lang-en|Bona Dea}}）<ref>Adkins,Lesley Adkins,Roy A.（1998）.''Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195123326.</ref>[[古罗马|古罗马]][[神话|神话]][[女性|女性]][[神祇|神祇]]之一。于古罗马得到广泛崇拜与传播，并凭借两个相关的祭祀日而闻名于世。其事迹亦反映于相关古典[[作家|作家]]之著述，具有重要地影响与积极意义。

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

== 扩展阅读 ==
*[[Mary_Beard_(classicist)|Beard, M]].,  Price, S.,  North, J.,  ''Religions of Rome: Volume 1, a History'', illustrated, [[Cambridge_University_Press|Cambridge University Press]], 1998.
*Brouwer, Henrik H. J., ''Bona Dea, The Sources and a Description of the Cult,'' Études préliminaires aux religions orientales dans l'Empire romain, 110, BRILL, 1989. [http://books.google.co.uk/books?hl=en&lr=&id=NHe98gAFmrYC&oi=fnd&pg=PR9&dq=Bona+Dea:+the+sources+and+a+description+of+the+cult&ots=RwEpuRuO1w&sig=8EpGt1u0OD0xdOZa9L66uo3fyNA#v=onepage&q&f=false googlebooks partial preview.]
*Herbert-Brown, Geraldine, Ovid and the Fasti, An Historical Study, Oxford Classical Monographs, 1994. ISBN 978-0-19-814935-4 [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=QHr6DN2BWRUC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q&f=false googlebooks partial preview.]
*Parker, Holt N., Why Were the Vestals Virgins? Or the Chastity of Women and the Safety of the Roman State, ''The American Journal of Philology'', Vol. 125, No. 4 (Winter, 2004), pp. 563–601.
*Staples, Ariadne, ''From Good Goddess to vestal virgins: sex and category in Roman religion'', Routledge, 1998. [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=cRS3E3u3HuAC&printsec=frontcover&dq=%22from+good+goddess+to+vestal+virgins%22&source=bl&ots=KllwnTITiT&sig=l-AbqlFEBMahZgBu-AwZcLuGIVU&hl=en&ei=yO7iTKWCJsG2hAfYr7mxDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&sqi=2&ved=0CBoQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q&f=false googlebooks partial preview.]
*Versnel, H. S., "The Festival for Bona Dea and the Thesmophoria", Cambridge University Press on behalf of The Classical Association, Greece & Rome, Second Series, Vol. 39, No. 1 (Apr., 1992), pp. 31–55.
*Wildfang,  Robin Lorsch, ''Rome's vestal virgins: a study of Rome's vestal priestesses in the late Republic and early Empire'', Routledge/Taylor & Francis, 2007, [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=eYetrQctq04C&pg=PA154&dq=wildfang,+robin+lorsch.+%22rome%27s+vestal+virgins%22.+oxford:+routledge&hl=en&ei=RGTYTOPdD4bvsgbW3p2NCA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q=Bona%20Dea&f=false googlebooks partial preview.]
{{羅馬神話}}
{{Authority control}}

[[Category:羅馬女神|Category:羅馬女神]]
[[Category:豐穰神|Category:豐穰神]]


{{古罗马小作品}}