{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Hypoleria
| authority = Godman & Salvin, [1879]
| image = Hypoleria sarepta 2.jpg
| image_caption = ''Hypoleria sarepta''
| type_species = [[老瑩綃蝶|老瑩綃蝶]]<br />''Hypoleria lavinia''
| type_species_authority = (Hewitson, 1855)
| subdivision_ranks = 物種
| subdivision = 共9種，詳見正文。
| synonyms =
* ''Pigritia'' <small>d'Almeida 1922</small>
* ''Pigritina'' <small>Hedicke, 1923</small>
* ''Heringia'' <small>d'Almeida, 1924</small>
}}

'''亮綃蝶屬'''（學名：''Hypoleria''）是[[蛺蝶科|蛺蝶科]][[斑蝶亞科|斑蝶亞科]][[綃蝶族|綃蝶族]]中的一個[[屬_(生物)|屬]]。物種分佈於中南美洲。

== 物種 ==
* [[阿達瑩綃蝶|阿達瑩綃蝶]] ''Hypoleria adasa''
* ''Hypoleria alema''
* ''Hypoleria aureliana''
* ''Hypoleria jaruensis''
* [[老瑩綃蝶|老瑩綃蝶]] ''Hypoleria lavinia''
** 卡索亮綃蝶 ''H. l. cassotis''
** 金齒亮綃蝶 ''H. l. chrysodonia''
** 全似亮綃蝶 ''H. l. consimilis''
** 里亮綃蝶 ''H. l. riffarthi''
** 鞘亮綃蝶 ''H. l. vanilia''
* ''H. l. lavinia'' = 王子亮綃蝶 ''H.mirza''
** 娥皇亮綃蝶 ''H. l. oreas''
* [[奧卡亮綃蝶|奧卡亮綃蝶]] ''Hypoleria ocalea''
** 橋亮綃蝶 ''H. o. gephira''
* ''Hypoleria sarepta''
** 山民亮綃蝶 ''H. s. oriana''
** 貞女亮綃蝶 ''H. s. virginia''
* ''Hypoleria xenophis''

== 參考文獻 ==
{{reflist}}
* Lamas, G. (ed.) 2004 Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. Checklist: Part 4A Hesperioidea - Papiionoidea. Gainesville: Scientific Publishers/Association of Tropical Lepidoptera.
* Illustrations of new species of exotic butterflies: selected chiefly from the collections of W. Wilson Saunders and William C. Hewitson. Volume I. John van Voorst, London.
* Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2008. Hypoleria Godman & Salvin 1880. Rhadinoptera d'Almeida 1922 junior objective synonym. Version 21 June 2008 (temporary). http://tolweb.org/Hypoleria/27623/2008.06.21 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Hypoleria/27623/2008.06.21 |date=20190222082047 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/{{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

{{Commons category|Hypoleria}}

{{斑蝶亞科}}
{{Taxonbar}}
[[Category:綃蝶族|L]]
[[Category:亮綃蝶屬|*]]
[[Category:_1879年描述的分类群|L]]