'''傳媒暴力研究'''（{{lang-en|'''Media violence research'''}}）研究如何對抗媒體[[暴力|暴力]]及其他透過媒體傳播的暴力行為、現象及引起的暴力行為。例如[[網路霸凌|網路霸凌]]，雖然許多[[社會科學|社會科學]]相關領域都有這個議題<ref name="anderson2003">Anderson, C.A., Berkowitz, L., Donnerstein, E., [[Rowell_Huesmann|Huesmann, L.R.]], Johnson, J.D., Linz, D., Malamuth, N.M., & Wartella, E. (2003). [http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1529-1006.2003.pspi_1433.x The influence of media violence on youth]{{Dead link|date=2019年10月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}. [[Psychological_Science_in_the_Public_Interest|Psychological Science in the Public Interest]], 4(3), 2003.</ref>，但針對這個領域目前仍缺乏相關的科學研究方法及理論。

媒體暴力研究追查，一個普及的媒體是否會影響潛在的暴力行為<ref name="HuesmannTaylor">[[Rowell_Huesmann|Huesmann, L.R]], and Laramie D Taylor. 2006. "[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1082524 The Role of Media Violence in Violent Behavior] {{Wayback|url=http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1082524 |date=20160327171851 }}". [[Annual_Review_of_Public_Health|Annual Review of Public Health]]. 27: 393.</ref>。部分研究者指出，媒體影響和暴力在關聯研究有如[[香煙|吸煙]]和[[癌症|癌症]]的相關研究一般。<ref name="bushman2001">[[Brad_Bushman|Bushman, Brad]] & Anderson, C. (2001). [http://www.psychology.iastate.edu/faculty/caa/abstracts/2000-2004/01BA.ap.pdf Media violence and the American public: Scientific fact versus media misinformation] {{Wayback|url=http://www.psychology.iastate.edu/faculty/caa/abstracts/2000-2004/01BA.ap.pdf |date=20140225232319 }}.  [[American_Psychologist|American Psychologist]], 56(6-7), pp. 477-489.</ref>研究人員指出，於媒體發表內容的作者低估了內容對潛在暴力的影響，一如吸煙者低估吸煙對罹患[[肺癌|肺癌]]的影響<ref>Block JJ, Crain BR (2007). "Omissions and errors in 'media violence and the American public.'". ''The American psychologist'' 62 (3): 252-3. DOI:10.1037/0003-066X.62.3.252. PMID 17469907</ref>。許多作者也認為媒體暴力研究得出的結論過於誇大<ref name="savage">Savage, J.  (2004.)  Does viewing violent media really cause criminal violence? A methodological review.  Aggression and Violent Behavior, 10, pp. 99-128.  {{ISSN|1359-1789}}</ref> <ref name="freedman2002">Freedman, J.  (2002).  Media violence and its effect on aggression.: Assessing the scientific evidence.  Toronto: [[University_of_Toronto_Press|University of Toronto Press]].  ISBN 978-0802035530</ref>。
少部分的媒體研究者甚至認為媒體是引起侵略性的禍首，然而大部分的學者皆認為媒體研究者的討論及擔心有點誇大了媒體的效果(Freedman, 2002; Pinker 2002; Savage, 2004)。

傳媒暴力研究學者[[Rowell_Huesmann|Rowell Huesmann]]指出「引起嚴重的攻擊性，是來自原有的複雜因素加上觸媒」<ref name="Huesmann1998">[[Rowell_Huesmann|Huesmann, L.R.]] (1998). "The role of social information processing and cognitive schema in the acquisition and maintenance of habitual aggressive behavior". In R. G. Geen, & E. I. Donnerstein (Eds.), ''Human aggression: Theories, research, and implications for policy'' (pp. 73-109). New York: [[Academic_Press|Academic Press]].  ISBN 9780122788055.  {{OCLC |39791314}}</ref> <ref name="HuesmannTaylor"/>。也有許多以其他看待攻擊行為的存在觀點，例如攻擊行為來自[[生理|生理]]或[[基因|基因]](see the work of Hare, 1993, Larsson, Andershed, & Lichtenstein, In Press, among others)，也有學者認為攻擊行為可以解釋為[[演化心理學|演化心理學]]的反應。<ref>[[David_Buss|Buss, David M.]]  ''The Murderer Next Door : Why The Mind Is Designed To Kill'', [[Penguin_Press|Penguin Press]] 2005 ISBN 978-1594200434</ref>。

對於媒體可能造成有害影響的指控並不是新聞，[[柏拉圖|柏拉圖]]就曾批評過戲劇對年輕人的影響。許多媒體，包括[[漫畫|漫畫]]、[[爵士樂|爵士樂]]、[[搖滾樂|搖滾樂]]、[[龍與地下城|龍與地下城]]和[[廉價小說|廉價小說]]等，都被一些人認定有可能造成讀者變的更具攻擊性、反叛性及行為上不道德。

1960年代[[電視|電視]]的誕生為研究者提供了研究效果影響的新媒體。許多研究者被心理學家[[阿爾波特·班杜拉|阿爾波特·班杜拉]]的[[社會學習理論|社會學習理論]]所引導。社會學習理論指出人類的[[模仿|學習]]行為是經由一連串的模式學習。社會學習理論和其他對於攻擊性的研究及方法不同，更多關注在神經心理學理論及研究方法上。

== 研究方法 ==
研究模型包括媒體使用者在長期及短期曝光於媒體暴力之下，和行為間的連結、影響。在短期媒體暴力研究中發現，暴力曝光會增加人的興奮感、對暴力的認知和機械性的模仿。

==參見==
* [[暴力美学|暴力美学]]
* {{le|画面暴力|Graphic violence}}
* [[電影分級制度|電影分級制度]]
* {{le|电子游戏争议|Video game controversy}}

==外部連結==
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20100210125732/http://www.fepproject.org/ Free Expression Policy Project]
*[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~bbushman/ Website of Brad Bushman] {{Wayback|url=http://www-personal.umich.edu/~bbushman/ |date=20200820090021 }}
*[http://www.gamerevolution.com/features/violence_and_videogames/ Duke Ferris' rebuttal to Brad Bushman] {{Wayback|url=http://www.gamerevolution.com/features/violence_and_videogames/ |date=20170403214747 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20080309043945/http://www.theesa.com/archives/EF%20Courts%20and%20Rulings%20Final%20--%20_JAN%202007_.pdf Info on court cases critical of media violence research]
*[http://anderson.socialpsychology.org/ Website of Craig Anderson] {{Wayback|url=http://anderson.socialpsychology.org/ |date=20010428015710 }}
*[http://www.surgeongeneral.gov/library/youthviolence/chapter4/appendix4bsec2.html#MajorBehavioralMedia/ Youth Violence: A Report of the Surgeon General] {{Wayback|url=http://www.surgeongeneral.gov/library/youthviolence/chapter4/appendix4bsec2.html#MajorBehavioralMedia/ |date=20120203081302 }}
*[http://www.theesa.com/ Entertainment Softward Industry's info on video game effects] {{Wayback|url=http://www.theesa.com/ |date=20040519203458 }}
*[http://huesmann.socialpsychology.org/ Website of Rowell Huesmann] {{Wayback|url=http://huesmann.socialpsychology.org/ |date=20190723114441 }}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20080829172746/http://judiciary.senate.gov/oldsite/mediavio.htm Children, violence, and the media: A report for parents and policy makers]
*[http://www.aclu.org/freespeech/censorship/11463leg20040915.html American Civil Liberties Union comments on media violence research] {{Wayback|url=http://www.aclu.org/freespeech/censorship/11463leg20040915.html |date=20091016230757 }}
*[http://archive-a01m01.libsyn.com/podcasts/c677df026ebe6f7f1bc0aae7870fc13c/45f6cc34/infidelguy/Show8_video_game_violence.mp3 Debate Hour Radio Recording on MV effects (mp3 file)]{{dead link|date=2017年11月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}
*[http://www.magicdragon.com/EmeraldCity/Nonfiction/socphil.html Open Questions on the Correlation Between Television and Violence] {{Wayback|url=http://www.magicdragon.com/EmeraldCity/Nonfiction/socphil.html |date=20200219170846 }}

==註腳==
<references/>

==參考資料==
* Anderson, C., & Dill, K.  (2000).  [http://www.apa.org/journals/features/psp784772.pdf Video games and aggressive thoughts, feelings and behavior in the laboratory and in life] {{Wayback|url=http://www.apa.org/journals/features/psp784772.pdf |date=20121007150858 }}.  [[Journal_of_Personality_and_Social_Psychology|Journal of Personality and Social Psychology]], 78, 772-790.
*[[John_Bargh|Bargh, J.]] (2005). Bypassing the will: Towards demystifying the nonconscious control of social behavior. In R. Hassin, J. Uleman and J. Bargh (Eds.) The New Unconscious. New York: [[Oxford_University_Press|Oxford University Press]]. ISBN 978-0195149951
*Bargh, J., Chen, M., & Burrows, L. (1996). "[http://www.psych.uiuc.edu/~broberts/Bargh%20et%20al.,%201996.pdf Automaticity of Social Behavior: Direct Effects of Trait Construct and Stereotype Activation on Action] {{Wayback|url=http://www.psych.uiuc.edu/~broberts/Bargh%20et%20al.,%201996.pdf |date=20081217171417 }}". ''[[Journal_of_Personality_and_Social_Psychology|Journal of Personality and Social Psychology]], 71''(2).
*Bartholow, B. D., Bushman, B. J., & Sestir, M. A. (2006). "[https://web.archive.org/web/20081217171416/http://www.elsevier.com/authored_subject_sections/S05/S05_361/misc/JESP_Bartholow.pdf Chronic violent video game exposure and desensitization to violence: Behavioral and event-related brain potential data]". ''[[Journal_of_Experimental_Social_Psychology|Journal of Experimental Social Psychology]]'', 42, 532-539.  {{doi|10.1016/j.jesp.2005.08.006}} 
* Berkowitz, L.  (1965).  Some aspects of observed aggression.  [[Journal_of_Personality_and_Social_Psychology|Journal of Personality and Social Psychology]], 2, 359-369.  PMID 14333308
*Block JJ, Crain BR (2007). "Omissions and errors in 'media violence and the American public.'". ''[[American_Psychologist|American Psychologist]]'' 62 (3): 252-3. DOI:10.1037/0003-066X.62.3.252. PMID 17469907
*[[Brad_Bushman|Bushman, Brad]] & Anderson, C. (2001). [http://www.psychology.iastate.edu/faculty/caa/abstracts/2000-2004/01BA.ap.pdf Media violence and the American public: Scientific fact versus media misinformation] {{Wayback|url=http://www.psychology.iastate.edu/faculty/caa/abstracts/2000-2004/01BA.ap.pdf |date=20140225232319 }}.  [[American_Psychologist|American Psychologist]], 56(6-7), pp. 477-489. 
* [[Brad_Bushman|Bushman, Brad]], & Anderson, C.  (2002).  [http://www.psychology.iastate.edu/faculty/caa/abstracts/2000-2004/02BApspb.pdf Violent video games and hostile expectations: A test of the General Aggression Model] {{Wayback|url=http://www.psychology.iastate.edu/faculty/caa/abstracts/2000-2004/02BApspb.pdf |date=20131228122058 }}.  [[Personality_and_Social_Psychology_Bulletin|Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin]], 28, 1679-1686.
*Comstock, G. & Scharrer, E.  (2003). Meta-analyzing the controversy over television violence and aggression.  In D. Gentile (Ed.)  ''Media Violence and Children'', pp. 205-226. ISBN 978-0275979560
* Deselms, J., & Altman, J.  (2003). "Immediate and prolonged effects of videogame violence".  ''[[Journal_of_Applied_Social_Psychology|Journal of Applied Social Psychology]]'', 33, 1553-1563.  {{DOI|10.1111/j.1559-1816.2003.tb01962.x}} "This study examined the relationship between playing violent videogames and sensitivity to aggressive acts."
* Freedman, Jonathan L.  (2002).  Media violence and its effect on aggression.: Assessing the scientific evidence.  Toronto: [[University_of_Toronto_Press|University of Toronto Press]].  ISBN 978-0802035530
*Freedman, J.  [https://web.archive.org/web/20090930100303/http://culturalpolicy.uchicago.edu/conf2001/papers/freedman.html Evaluating the Research on Violent Video Games]. 
*{{cite book |last=Hare |first=Robert |authorlink = Robert Hare (psychologist) |title=Without Conscience : The Disturbing World of the Psychopaths Among Us |date=1993  |publisher= [[Pocket_Books|Pocket Books]]  |isbn= 978-0671732615 |oclc=28550146 }}
* [[Rowell_Huesmann|Huesmann, L.R.]], & [[Leonard_Eron|Eron, L.]]  (1986).  Television and the aggressive child: A cross-national comparison.  Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates ISBN 978-0898597547 
*[[Rowell_Huesmann|Huesmann, L.R]], Moise, J.F., & Podolski, C.L.  (1997).  The effects of media violence on the development of antisocial behavior.  In D. Stoff, J. Breiling & Master (Eds.)  ''Handbook of Antisocial Behavior'' (pp. 181- 193).  New York: [[John_Wiley_&_Sons|John Wiley & Sons]] ISBN 978-0471124528
*[[Susan_Hurley|Hurely, S.]] "[http://eis.bris.ac.uk/~plajb/hurley_papers/bypasssing_conscious_control.doc Bypassing Conscious Control: Media violence, unconscious intention, and freedom of speech]{{dead link|date=2017年11月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}".  from ''Does Consciousness Cause Behavior?  An Investigation of the Nature of Volition'', March 2006  [[MIT_Press|MIT Press]] (ISBN 978-0-262-16237-1)
* [[Gerard_Jones|Jones, Gerard]] (2002). '' Killing monsters: why children need fantasy, super heroes and make-believe violence.'' New York : [[Basic_Books|Basic Books]] ISBN 978-0465036967 
* Larsson, H., Andershed, A., & Lichtenstein, P.  (In Press).  A genetic factor explains most of the variation in the psychopathic personality.  [[Journal_of_Abnormal_Psychology|Journal of Abnormal Psychology]] 2006, 115(2)  {{PMID|16737387}}
* Mussen, P., & Rutherford, E.  (1961).  "Effects of aggressive cartoons on children’s aggressive play" ''[[Journal_of_Abnormal_and_Social_Psychology|Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology]]'', 62, 461-464. {{PMID|13727111}}
* Olson, C.  (2004). [http://ap.psychiatryonline.org/cgi/content/full/28/2/144 Media Violence Research and Youth Violence Data: Why Do They Conflict?] {{Wayback|url=http://ap.psychiatryonline.org/cgi/content/full/28/2/144 |date=20041211033411 }}  Academic Psychiatry, 28, 144-150.
*Paik, H.  & Comstock, G.  (1994).  [http://crx.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/21/4/516 The effects of television violence on antisocial behavior: A meta-analysis] {{Wayback|url=http://crx.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/21/4/516 |date=20061025161055 }}.  ''Communication Research, 21''(4), 516-546.
* [[史迪芬·平克|史迪芬·平克]]  (2002)  ''[[The_Blank_Slate|The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature]]''.  New York, NY: Penguin (ISBN 0-670-03151-8)
*Prinz, W. (1990). A common coding approach to perception and action.  In O. Neumann and W. Prinz (Eds.)  Relations between perception and action.  Berlin: Springer.  
*Prinz, W. (2005).  An Ideomotor Approach to Imitation.  In [[Susan_Hurley|Hurely, S.]] & N. Chater (Eds.)  Perspectives on Imitation: From Neuroscience to Social Science (vol. 1).  Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.  ISBN 978-1423750208
*Slater, M. D. (2003). [http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1460-2466.2003.tb03008.x?cookieSet=1&journalCode=jcom Alienation, Aggression, and Sensation Seeking as Predictors of Adolescent Use of Violent Film, Computer, and Website Content]{{Dead link|date=2019年10月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}. ''[[Journal_of_Communication|Journal of Communication]], 53''(1), 105-121. 
* Tedeschi, James T., & Quigley, Brian.  (1996).   "Limitations of laboratory paradigms for studying aggression".  Aggression & Violent Behavior, 2, 163-177.  {{DOI|10.1016/1359-1789(95)00014-3}} {{ISSN|1359-1789}}
*Vidal, Miguel Ángel, Clemente, Miguel & Espinosa, Pablo.  (2003). "[http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/105558454/abstract?CRETRY=1&SRETRY=0 Types of Media Violence and Degree of Acceptance in Under-18s]{{Dead link|date=2019年3月 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}" ''Aggressive Behavior, 29''(5), 381-392.  {{DOI|10.1002/ab.10037}}  {{ISSN|0096-140X}}


[[Category:心理學實驗|Category:心理學實驗]]
[[Category:大眾媒體|Category:大眾媒體]]
[[Category:传媒问题|Category:传媒问题]]