{{Expand|time=2015-05-15T07:38:46+00:00}}
{{noteTA
|G1=地名
}}
'''[[義大利|義大利]]外交'''是指義大利政府的外交政策。自1861年統一以來，義大利一直是西方世界的主要國家之一<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.ladocumentationfrancaise.fr/catalogue/3303331600596/index.shtml |title=存档副本 |accessdate=2015-01-06 |archive-date=2013-05-09 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20130509163336/http://www.ladocumentationfrancaise.fr/catalogue/3303331600596/index.shtml |dead-url=yes }}</ref>。義大利的主要盟國是北約國家，歐盟成員國和G7先進國家，義大利也是這三個國際組織的創始成員。義大利和羅馬天主教會有著密切的關係，但也重視和阿拉伯世界的關係，也多次扮演調解以巴衝突的角色。義大利還是地中海沿岸地區重要的經濟體。

==參考資料==
{{reflist}}
* Azzi,  Stephen Corrado. "The Historiography of Fascist Foreign Policy," ''Historical Journal'' (1993) 36#1 pp. 187–203 [http://www.jstor.org/stable/2639522 in JSTOR] {{Wayback|url=http://www.jstor.org/stable/2639522 |date=20150620015415 }}
* Bosworth, Richard. ''Italy: The Least of the Great Powers: Italian Foreign Policy Before the First World War'' (1979) 
* Bosworth, Richard. ''Mussolini'' (2002) [http://www.amazon.com/Mussolini-R-J-B-Bosworth/dp/0340731443/  excerpt and text search] {{Wayback|url=http://www.amazon.com/Mussolini-R-J-B-Bosworth/dp/0340731443/ |date=20141027111415 }}
* Burgwyn, H. James. ''Italian Foreign Policy in the Interwar Period, 1918-1940'' (1997) [http://www.amazon.com/Italian-Foreign-Policy-Interwar-Period-ebook/dp/B000WA6138/ excerpt and text search] {{Wayback|url=http://www.amazon.com/Italian-Foreign-Policy-Interwar-Period-ebook/dp/B000WA6138/ |date=20150106131946 }}
* Cassels, Alan. ''Italian Foreign Policy, 1918-1945: A Guide to Research and Research Materials'' (1997)
* Chabod, Federico. ''Italian Foreign Policy'' (1996) [http://www.amazon.com/Italian-Foreign-Policy-Federico-Chabod/dp/0691044503/  excerpt and text search] {{Wayback|url=http://www.amazon.com/Italian-Foreign-Policy-Federico-Chabod/dp/0691044503/ |date=20150106122314 }}
* Faherty, Douglas M. ''Italian Foreign Policy: Trends for the Twenty-First Century'' (2012) [http://www.amazon.com/Italian-Foreign-Policy-Twenty-First-Century-ebook/dp/B007IWI13G/  excerpt] {{Wayback|url=http://www.amazon.com/Italian-Foreign-Policy-Twenty-First-Century-ebook/dp/B007IWI13G/ |date=20150106122354 }}
* Gooch, John. ''Mussolini and his Generals: The Armed Forces and Fascist Foreign Policy, 1922-1940'' (2007) [http://www.amazon.com/Mussolini-his-Generals-1922-1940-Cambridge/dp/0521856027/ excerpt and text search] {{Wayback|url=http://www.amazon.com/Mussolini-his-Generals-1922-1940-Cambridge/dp/0521856027/ |date=20150106122534 }}
* Lowe, C. J. and F. Marzari. ''Italian Foreign Policy, 1870-1940'' (2001) 
* * Maurizio Marinelli, Giovanni Andornino, Italy’s Encounter with Modern China: Imperial dreams, strategic ambitions, New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2014.
* Maurizio Marinelli, “The Genesis of the Italian Concession in Tianjin: A Combination of Wishful Thinking and Realpolitik”. Journal of Modern Italian Studies, 15 (4), 2010: 536-556.
* Smith, Denis Mack. ''Modern Italy: A Political History'' (1997)
* Taylor, A.J.P. ''The Struggle for Mastery in Europe 1848–1918'' (1954), covers all European diplomacy
{{portal box|義大利|國際關係}}
{{意大利外交}}
{{歐洲題目|外交}}
[[Category:義大利外交|]]