{{lowercase}}
{{NoteTA|T=zh-cn:zlib许可证;zh-tw:zlib授權條款|G1=IT|G2=FL}}
{{Infobox software license
| image = Zlib 3D green.svg
| image size = 100px
| name = zlib许可证
| author = Jean-loup Gailly]和Mark Adler
| copyright = Jean-loup Gailly和Mark Adler
| version = 1.2.11
| date = 2017-01-15
| OSI approved = 是
| Debian approved = 是
| Free Software = 是
| GPL compatible = 是
| copyleft = 不是
| linking = 是
}}'''zlib许可证'''是一个[[自由软件|自由软件]]授权[[软件许可证|许可证]]，它定义了 Zlib 软件库可以分发的条款。它也被许多其它免费软件包使用。[[libpng|libpng]]库使用相似的许可证，有时可互换称为zilb/libpng许可证。

zlib许可证已被自由软件基金会（FSF）批准为自由软件许可证，<ref name="fsf">{{cite web |url=https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#ZLib |title=Various Licenses and Comments about Them |accessdate=2007-06-17 |quote=License of ZLib [...] is a free software license, and compatible with the GPL. |archive-date=2010-02-08 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20100208212305/http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/index_html#ZLib |dead-url=no }}</ref>也被开源计划（OSI）批准为开源许可证<ref name="osi">{{cite web |url=https://opensource.org/licenses/Zlib |title=The zlib/libpng License (Zlib) |accessdate=2013-01-16 |archive-date=2021-07-29 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210729012819/https://opensource.org/licenses/Zlib |dead-url=no }}</ref>。它与GNU通用公共许可证兼容。<ref name="fsf"/>类似于[[BSD许可证|BSD许可]]，除了必须注明来源，还应在发布的软件中保留此授权协议的副本。

== 条款 ==
这个许可证只有以下几点要说明：
* 软件按“原版”使用。作者对因使用而造成的任何损害不承担任何责任。 
* 软件修改版本的分发受以下限制：
*# 不得歪曲源软件的作者身份，
*# 不得将更改的版本歪曲为原创软件，'''并且'''
*# 不得从源发行版中删除许可声明。

如果分发二进制代码，许可证不需要提供源代码。

== 文档 ==
许可条款如下：

<pre>
Copyright (c) <''year''> <''copyright holders''>

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
   claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
   in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
   appreciated but is not required.
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
   misrepresented as being the original software.
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.
</pre>

== 注释 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 相关链接 ==
* [https://zlib.net/zlib_license.html zlib主页上的许可协议原文] {{Wayback|url=https://zlib.net/zlib_license.html |date=20210709135833 }}

{{FOSS}}

[[Category:自由軟體授權|Category:自由軟體授權]]