{{copyedit|time=2014-03-22T07:25:34+00:00}}

'''Zompist.com'''(也被稱為梅塔博斯<Metaverse>)，是由一位[[語言創建者名單|人工語言創建者]](conlanger)馬克·羅日菲爾德(Mark Rosenfelder、又名榮皮斯特<Zompist>)所創建的一個[[網站|網站]]。它包括有[[漫画|漫画]]、[[政治|政治]]、[[語言|語言]]，及[[科学|科学]]等之特色的文章，以及羅日菲爾德的[[人工世界|人工世界]](conworld/Worldbuilding)阿爾米(Almea)之詳細說明。該網站也是語言構建工具包(Language Construction Kit)的主站，其中羅日菲爾德引入新人工語言創建者到愛好者的文章等之資訊。 

該網站的許多功能已經引起媒體注意到，包括它的文化測試，<ref>Cooper, Gael Fashingbauer; ''Star Tribune'' (Minneapolis, MN), June 2, 2001, "An international view of culture offers surprises"</ref> 來自短語書籍的幽默摘編，<ref>''Informationsdeinst'', "Kurz notiert",  April 22, 2004</ref>它的採集超過5000種語言<ref>''Lexington Herald-Leader'' (KY), February 4, 2002, Page A2</ref>以及語言構建工具包(Language Construction Kit)"Page A2"。<ref>''Fairfield County Business Journal''; 12/27/99, Vol. 38 Issue 52, p7, "Surf's Up"</ref><ref>''ComputerSweden'', January 20, 2006</ref><ref>''Deutsche Welle'', September 20, 2004, "Schmeichlerische Sprachmelodien"</ref>

==語言建構工具包==<!--
The ''Language Construction Kit''<ref>''Corriere della Sera'', March 8, 1998</ref><ref>''Le Monde'', February 21, 1998</ref> is a collection of [[HTML|HTML]] documents written by Rosenfelder and hosted at Zompist.com intended to be a guide for making [[constructed_language|constructed language]]s. The Kit proceeds from the simplest aspects of language upward, starting with [[phonology|phonology]] and [[writing|writing]] systems, moving on to [[word|word]]s, going through the complexities of [[grammar|grammar]], and ending with an overview of [[Register_(sociolinguistics)|register]]s and [[dialect|dialect]]s. This sensible progression, as well as the warnings against common oversights, frequent use of examples from [[natural_language|natural language]]s, and healthy dose of [[humor|humor]], has earned the Kit its popular and respected status among the [[Internet|Internet]] conlanging [[community|community]]. It has been translated into [[Portuguese_language|Portuguese]] and [[Italian_language|Italian]] by fans, and has come out in book form in March 2010.<ref>[http://www.zompist.com/lckbook.html Zompist.com]</ref> There are now three follow-up works: the ''Planet Construction Kit'', ''Advanced Language Construction'', and ''The Conlanger's Lexipedia''.<ref>[http://www.zompist.com/lckbook.html Zompist.com]</ref>

Languages constructed by Mark Rosenfelder (all intended to be spoken within an imaginary world called ''Almea'') include:

The Language Construction Kit is a collection of HTML documents written by Rosenfelder and hosted at Zompist.com intended to be a guide for making constructed languages. The Kit proceeds from the simplest aspects of language upward, starting with phonology and writing systems, moving on to words, going through the complexities of grammar, and ending with an overview of registers and dialects. This sensible progression, as well as the warnings against common oversights, frequent use of examples from natural languages, and healthy dose of humor, has earned the Kit its popular and respected status among the Internet conlanging community. It has been translated into Portuguese and Italian by fans, and has come out in book form in March 2010. There are now three follow-up works: the Planet Construction Kit, Advanced Language Construction, and The Conlanger's Lexipedia.

Languages constructed by Mark Rosenfelder (all intended to be spoken within an imaginary world called Almea) include:

語言構建工具包是HTML文檔的集合，寫的Rosenfelder和主持在Zompist.com擬作出構建語言的指南。該試劑盒進行從語言的最簡單的方面向上，從音韻學和書寫系統，移動到的話，經歷了語法的複雜性，並與寄存器和方言的概況結束。這個明智的進展，以及對常見的疏忽，經常使用的自然語言的例子，幽默的健康劑量的警告，贏得了套件互聯網conlanging社區中的受歡迎和受尊重的地位。它已被翻譯成葡萄牙文和意大利球迷，而且已經走出了以書形式2010年3月。現在有三種後續作品：地球構建工具包，高級語言建設和Conlanger的Lexipedia。 

由Mark Rosenfelder（全意被稱為Almea一個虛構的世界中口語）建造的語言包括：

{{div col|4}}
*[[Verdurian_language|Verdurian]]
*Ismaîn
*Barakhinei
*Caďinor
*Cuêzi
*Axunašin
*Xurnese
*Proto-Eastern
*Kebreni
*Munkhâshi
*Wede:i
*Old Skourene
*Elkarîl
*Flaidish
*Uyseʔ
*Lé
{{div col end}}
-->
==Zompist佈告欄==<!--
The website has a corresponding [[bulletin_board_system|bulletin board]], formerly hosted with [[SpinnWebe|SpinnWebe]] but now with its own domain at www.incatena.org.  The Zompist Bulletin Board (often abbreviated ''ZBB'') is an online forum created for the purpose of discussing [[conlang|conlang]]s, [[conworld|conworld]]s, and Mark Rosenfelder's own constructed world, ''Almea''. Members of the board share and showcase their own conlangs and conworlds, as well as discuss aspects of the world's languages.

The website has a corresponding bulletin board, formerly hosted with SpinnWebe but now with its own domain at www.incatena.org. The Zompist Bulletin Board (often abbreviated ZBB) is an online forum created for the purpose of discussing conlangs, conworlds, and Mark Rosenfelder's own constructed world, Almea. Members of the board share and showcase their own conlangs and conworlds, as well as discuss aspects of the world's languages.


該網站有一個相應的公告板，原託管與SpinnWebe，但現在有自己的域名在www.incatena.org。該Zompist公告板（通常縮寫ZBB），是為討論conlangs，conworlds，和馬克Rosenfelder自己構建的世界裡，Almea的目的，創建了一個在線論壇。董事會份額成員，並展示自己的conlangs和conworlds，以及討論的世界語言方面。
-->

==註釋==
{{Reflist|2}}

==參閲==
{{wikiquote|Mark Rosenfelder}}
* [[Langmaker|Langmaker]]（{{link-en|Langmaker|Langmaker}}）

==外部連結==
*{{Official website|http://www.zompist.com/}}
*[http://www.incatena.org Zompist Bulletin Board] {{Wayback|url=http://www.incatena.org/ |date=20220322030141 }}
{{-}}
{{Constructed languages|state=collapsed}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Zompist.Com}}
[[Category:人工語言資源|Category:人工語言資源]]
[[Category:網絡討論區|Category:網絡討論區]]
[[Category:語言學網站|Category:語言學網站]]