'''簡明精神病評定量表'''（{{lang-en|'''Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale'''}}；簡稱'''BPRS'''）是一個[[精神科|精神科]]的評定量表，讓臨床醫生或研究人員以之來衡量病者的精神症狀，例如：[[抑鬱|抑鬱]]、[[焦慮|焦慮]]、[[幻覺|幻覺]]和其他的異常行為<ref name="Overall">{{cite journal |last1=Overall |first1=JE |last2=Gorham |first2=DR |year=1962 |title=The brief psychiatric rating scale |journal=Psychological Reports |volume=1962 |issue=10 |pages=pp. 799-812 |language=en }}</ref>。本評定量表是現時使用最久、最廣泛使用的精神病評定量表，於1962年首次出版，現時最新的版本是4.0<ref name="BPRS4">{{cite book |url=http://www.public-health.uiowa.edu/icmha/outreach/documents/BPRS_expanded.PDF |title=Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) Expanded Version (4.0) |language=en |access-date=2013-03-24 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170215020712/http://www.public-health.uiowa.edu/icmha/outreach/documents/bprs_expanded.pdf |archive-date=2017-02-15 |dead-url=yes }}</ref>。

== 評估辦法 ==
每個徵狀被評為1-7之間：
# 非常輕微（Extremely Mild）、
# 很輕微（Very Mild）、
# 輕微（Mild）、
# 中等（Moderate）、
# 嚴重（Severe）、
# 很嚴重（Very Severe）、
# 非常嚴重（Extremely Severe）。

視乎不同的版本，包括有18到24種要評估的病徵。評定量表詳列各評估細項的成立條件，以及細項之間的關連。例如：若病者因為自體幻象而在第一項被評為很嚴重到非常嚴重，那在第11項的評估值應至少被評為中等<ref name="BPRS4" />。

== 評估細項 ==
# 自體觀感（Somatic Concern）
# [[焦慮|焦慮]]（Anxiety）
# [[抑鬱|抑鬱]]（Depression）
# [[自殺傾向|自殺傾向]]（Suicidality）
# [[內疚|內疚]]（Guilt）
# [[敵意|敵意]]（Hostility）
# [[情緒高昂|情緒高昂]]（Elated Mood）
# [[浮誇|浮誇]]（Grandiosity）
# [[多疑|多疑]]（Suspiciousness ）
# [[幻覺|幻覺]]（Hallucinations）
# 不尋常的思想內容（Unusual thought content）
# [[怪異行為|怪異行為]]（Bizarre behaviour）
# 自我忽視（Self-neglect）
# 迷失方向（Disorientation）
# 概念混亂（Conceptual disorganisation）
# 遲鈍反應（Blunted affect）
# 情感退縮（Emotional withdrawal）
# [[機動能力|機動能力]]遲緩（Motor retardation）
# [[緊張|緊張]]（Tension）
# [[不合作|不合作]]（Uncooperativeness）
# [[興奮|興奮度]]（Excitement）
# [[分心|分心]]程度（Distractibility）
# 機動能力[[過度活躍|過度活躍]]（Motor hyperactive）
# [[舉止|舉止]]和[[姿態|姿態]]（Mannerisms and posturing）

當中，第1-14項乃被觀察者自行報告，第7、12、13項由醫生觀察被觀察者判斷，第15至24項由醫生從被觀察者的表現及言語來判斷<ref name="BPRS4" />。

== 參考資料 ==
{{reflist|2}}
<!-- Instructions for adding a footnote:
NOTE: Footnotes in this article use names, not numbers. Please see [[:en:Wikipedia:Footnote3|:en:Wikipedia:Footnote3]] for details.
# Assign your footnote a unique name, for example TheSun_Dec9.
#  Add<ref name="TheSun_Dec9"></ref> to the body of the article, where you want the new footnote.
#  Put the reference information (template, mere URL, plain text, e.g.) in between <nowiki><ref name="TheSun_Dec9"> and </ref></nowiki>.
#  It will appear in the references section immediately PROVIDED YOU HAVE TYPED EVERYTHING CORRECTLY. There is no need to type anything down here.
#  Multiple footnotes to the same reference will work if you type out, "<nowiki><ref name="TheSun_Dec9"/></nowiki>", again without the nowiki tags.
-->
== 參看 ==
*{{link-en|PANSS|Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale}}
*{{link-en|SANS|Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms}}
*{{link-en|SAPS|Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms}}
*{{link-en|精神病分類及評定量表|Diagnostic classification and rating scales used in psychiatry}}
*{{link-en|ITAQ|ITAQ}}

== 外部連結 ==
* [http://farmacologiaclinica.info/scales/BPRS/ BPRS online tool] 
* [http://www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/classics1979/A1979HZ19700001.pdf Commentary on the BPRS by John Overall in 1978 at Citation Classics]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20110707134113/http://ammonsscientific.com/link.php?N=41948 Link to first page of the original paper] (Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click summary)

[[Category:精神病学诊断|Category:精神病学诊断]]