{{Infobox Language family
  |name=阿冈昆语族
  |altname=
  |region=[[北美|北美]]
  |familycolor=美洲原住民语言
  |fam1=[[阿尔吉克语系|阿尔吉克语系]]
  |child1=[[平原阿冈昆语支|平原阿冈昆语支]]
  |child2=[[中阿冈昆语支|中阿冈昆语支]]
  |child3=[[东阿冈昆语支|东阿冈昆语支]]
  |map=Algic langs.png
  |iso2=alg
  |iso5=alg
}}

'''阿冈昆语族'''（Algonquian languages）是[[美洲原住民语言|美洲原住民语言]]的一支，[[阿尔吉克语系|阿尔吉克语系]]下最主要的一个语族。它是[[阿尔冈昆人|阿尔冈昆人]]所操的语言，使用者从北美洲东岸一直延伸到落基山脉。语族下不少语言处于濒危，有一些已经消亡。

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin}}
* [http://www.ethnologue.com/show_family.asp?subid=91080 Ethnologue.com], Ethnologue entry for Algonquian languages
* Bloomfield, Leonard (1946). "Algonquian". ''Linguistic Structures of Native America'', ed. Harry Hoijer. Viking Fund Publications in Anthropology: 6. New York.
* Cappel, Constance, (2006), Odawa Language and Legends: Andrew J. Blackbird and Raymond Kiogima, Bloomington, IN: Xlibris.
* Campbell, Lyle (1997). ''American Indian languages: The historical linguistics of Native America''. New York: [[Oxford_University_Press|Oxford University Press]]. ISBN 0-19-509427-1.
* Goddard, Ives (1979a). "Comparative Algonquian". In Lyle Campbell & Marianne Mithun, eds., ''The Languages of Native North America: Historical and Comparative Assessment'', pp. 70–132. Austin: University of Texas Press.
* ———— (1994). "The West-to-East Cline in Algonquian Dialectology." In William Cowan, ed., ''Papers of the 25th Algonquian Conference'', pp. 187–211. Ottawa: [[Carleton_University|Carleton University]].
* ———— (1996). "Introduction". In Ives Goddard, ed., "Languages". Vol. 17 of William Sturtevant, ed., ''The Handbook of North American Indians''. Washington, D.C.: [[Smithsonian_Institution|Smithsonian Institution]].
* Grimes, Barbara F. (ed.).  (2000).  ''Ethnologue: Languages of the world'', (14th ed.). Dallas, TX: SIL International. ISBN 1-55671-106-9. Online edition: [http://www.ethnologue.com/ Ethnologue.com], accessed March 3, 2005.
* Mithun, Marianne (1999). ''The languages of Native North America''. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-23228-7 (hbk); ISBN 0-521-29875-X.
* Moondancer and Strong Woman (2007). ''A Cultural History of the Native Peoples of Southern New England: Voices from Past and Present.'' Boulder, CO: Bauu Press. ISBN 0-9721349-3-X.
*O'Brien, Frank Waabu (2010). "Understanding Indian Place Names in Southern New England". Colorado: Bauu Press. ISBN 978-0-9820467-6-0.
* Pentland, David H. (2006). "Algonquian and Ritwan Languages", in Keith Brown, ed., ''Encyclopedia of Languages and Linguistics'' (2nd ed.), pp. 161–6. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
* Proulx, Paul (2003). "The Evidence on Algonquian Genetic Grouping: A Matter of Relative Chronology", ''Anthropological Linguistics'' '''45''':201-25.
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
{{refbegin}}
*[http://www.native-languages.org/famalg.htm Algonquian family words]
*[http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Appendix:Swadesh_lists_for_Algonquian_languages Comparative Algonquian Swadesh vocabulary lists] (from Wiktionary's [http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Appendix:Swadesh_lists Swadesh-list appendix])
*{{Gutenberg|no=18279|name=Composition of Geographical Names from the Algonkin Languages, by J. Hammond Trumbull}}
{{refend}}

{{Authority control}}
[[Category:美国语言|Category:美国语言]]
[[Category:加拿大语言|Category:加拿大语言]]
[[Category:阿尔吉克语系|Category:阿尔吉克语系]]