{{Infobox person|name=Albert Günther|image=Gunther Albert 1830-1914.png
|birth_name=Albert Charles Lewis Gotthilf Günther
|birth_date=1830年10月3日
|birth_place=[[德國|德國]][[埃斯林根|埃斯林根]]|death_date=1914年2月1日
|death_place=[[英國|英國]][[邱園|邱園]]|nationality=德國
|citizenship=英國
|occupation=[[動物學家|動物學家]]
|awards=[[林奈獎|林奈獎]] {{small|（1904）}}
}}
'''阿尔伯特·卡尔·路德维希·戈特利夫·甘瑟''' （{{lang-de|'''Albert Karl Ludwig Gotthilf Günther'''}}，亦称'''Albert Charles Lewis Gotthilf Günther'''，{{bd|1830年|10月3日|1914年|2月1日|G}}），[[德国|德国]]裔[[英国|英国]]动物学家。

==生平==
甘瑟出生于[[士瓦本|士瓦本]]的[[埃斯林根|埃斯林根]]，早年曾研读[[神学|神学]]和[[药剂学|药剂学]]，1857年就职于[[大英博物馆|大英博物馆]]，专攻[[鱼类学|鱼类学]]，到1870年，他完成了8卷本的《鱼类分类》。1875年，由于他在动物学上的成就，被[[英国自然历史博物馆|英国自然历史博物馆]]聘为动物馆馆长。1865年，甘瑟被选入[[皇家学会|皇家学会]]，并曾在1875年出任副会长。1877年，他成为[[林奈学会|林奈学会]]会员，并在1896年至1900年间担任会长。1914年2月1日在[[邱園|邱園]]逝世。<ref name=prsl>{{cite journal | author=M, WC | title=Obituary Notices of Fellows Deceased. A. C. L. G. Günther, 1830–1914. | volume=88 | issue=608 | year=1915 | journal=Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B | pages=xi–xxvi}}</ref><ref>Oxford Dictionary of National Biography 2004. Vol 24.</ref>

== 著作 ==
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1858) ''Handbuch der Medicinischen Zoologie''.
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1858) ''Catalogue of the [[Batrachia|Batrachia]] salientia in the collection of the British Museum''. London.
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1858) On the geographical distribution of reptiles. ''Proc Zool Soc London''.
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1859-70) ''Catalogue of the Fishes in the British Museum'', eight volumes.
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1863) On new specimens of Snakes in the collection of the British Museum. Sep. Annals Mag. Nat. Hist., 1-6. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1863) Third account of new species of snakes in the collection of the British Museum. ''Sep. Annals Mag. Nat. Hist''., 1-17. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1864) Report on a collection of Reptiles and Fishes made by Dr. Kirk in the Zambesi and Nyassa regions. Sep. ''Proc. Zool. Soc. London'', 1-12. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1864) Descriptions of new  species of Batrachians from West Africa. Sep. ''Proc. Zool. Soc. London'', 1-4. Folha manuscrita por Bocage no interior com descrição de Cystignathus Bocagei de Bolama. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1865) Fourth account of new species of snakes in the collection of the British Museum. ''Sep. Annals Mag. Nat. Hist''., 1-10. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1867) Contribution to the anatomy of Hatteria (Rhynchocephalus, Owen). ''Sep. Philosophical Transactions'', II: 1-36. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1867) Descriptions of some new or little-known species of Fishes in the collection of the British Museum. ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'', Jan. 24: 99-104, 1 estampa. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1868) First account of species of tailless Batrachians added to the collection of the British Museum. ''Proc. Zool. Soc. London'', III: 478-490. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1868) Sixth account of new species of snakes in the collection of the British Museum. ''Sep. Annals Mag. Nat. Hist''., 1-17. 
* GÜNTHER, Alfred (1868) First account of species of Tailless Batrachians added to the collection of the British Museum. ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'' (III), June 25: 478-490. 4 pranchas. 
* GÜNTHER, Alfred (1868) Report on a collection of Fishes made at St. Helena by J.C. Meliss. ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'' (II): 225-228.1 estampa. 
* GÜNTHER, Alfred (1868) Descriptions of freshwater Fishes made from Surinam and Brazil. ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'' (II): 229-246. 3 estampas. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1872) Seventh account of new species of snakes in the collection of the British Museum. ''Annals Mag. Nat. Hist''., 13-37. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1874) Description of a new European species of ''Zootoca''. ''Annals and Magazine of Natural History'', August.  
* GUNTHER, Albert (1874) Descriptions of some new or imperfectly known species of Reptiles from the Camaroon Mountains. ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'', June 16: 444-445. Plate 56 - ''Chamaeleon montium'' Buckholz, 1874. B - juvenil. Pl. 57: ''Rhampholeon spectrum'' Buckholz e ''Bothrolycus ater'' sp. nov. . Del. G.H. Ford.. 
* GUNTHER, Albert (1875) Second report on collection of Indian Reptiles obtained by the British Museum. ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'', March 16 : 224-234. Plates XXX-XXXIV. Col. Tenente Beddome no Sul da Índia e Dr. Jerdon no Norte e nos Himalaias. Plate 30 - ''Calotes grandisquamis'' Gunther, 1875 - col. Bedomme no sopé do Canoot Ghat; Pl. XXXIV - ''Trimeresurus jerdoni'' sp. nov. - Jerdon, Khassya. G.H. Ford del. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1875) Third report on collections of Indian Reptiles obtained by the British Museum. From the ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'': 567-577. 4 estampas.  
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1876) Statement regarding dr. Welwitsch's Angola Reptiles. ''Jornal de Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturaes, Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa'', V (20): 275-276. Welwitsch. Seguem declarações de J.V. Barboza du Bocage. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1876) Notes on a small collection brought by Lieut. L. Cameron, from Angola. ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'', pág. 678. Herpetologia. ''Ahaetulla dorsalis'' (Bocage). Reptilia. Serpentes. 
* GÜNTHER, A. (1876) Remarks on some Indian and, more especially, Bornean Mammals. Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London,  III: 424-428. Plate XXXVII - ''Viverra megaspila'' Blyth, 1863. J.G. Keulemans del. 
* GÜNTHER, A. (1876) Carta para Bocage, do Zoological Department (British Museum), 26 de Junho, a falar de Welwitsch. ''Arquivo histórico do Museu Bocage'', CE/G-88. 
* GÜNTHER, A. (1877) Notice of two large extinct lizards formerly inhabiting the Mascarene Islands. ''Sep. Linnean Society's Journal - Zoology'', vol. 13: 321-328. 
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1878) - On Reptiles from Midian collected by Major Burton. From the ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'': 977-978. 1 estampa.  
* GÜNTHER, A.  (1879) The extinct reptiles of Rodriguez. ''Sep. Philosoph. Trans. Roy. Soc'', 168 (extra-vol.), London: 470-472. 
* GUNTHER, Albert (1879) List of the Mammals, Reptiles, and Batrachians sent by Mr. Everett from the Philippine Islands. ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society, London'', January 14: 74-79. Plate IV - ''Dendrophis philippinensis'' Gunther, 1879 - Norte de Mindanao . Del. R. Mintern. 
* GUNTHER, Albert (1882) Observations on some rare Reptiles and a Batrachian now or lately living in the Society's Menagerie. ''Transactions of the Zoological Society, London'' VI, part VII (1) : 215-222, pl. 42-46. ''Chelys fimbriata'' (Schneid.) - a Matamata habita as águas estagnada do Brasil e Guiana. Pl. 43-44: ''Metopoceros cornutus'' (Wagler). A imagem representa o segundo exemplar chegado aos museus da Europa, o primeiro pertencia ao Museu de Paris e tinha vindo de San Domingo. Deste não se conhece a proveniência exacta. ''Ceratothrys ornata'' (Bell). ''Tejus rufescens'' - Mendoza.
* GÜNTHER, A. (1884) Contributions to our Knowledge of ''Hydromedusa'', a genus of South-American freshwater Turtles. ''Annals and Magazine of Natural History'', Fifth Series, Volume XIV: 421-425. Plate XIV.
* GÜNTHER, A. (1884) Note on some East-African Antelopes supposed to be new. ''Annals and Magazine of Natural History'', Fifth Series, Volume XIV: 425-429.
* GÜNTHER, Albert (1885) - Note on a supposed melanotic variety of the Leopard, from South Africa. From the ''Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London'', March 3: 243-245, estampa de ''Felis leopardus''.  
* GÜNTHER, A.  (1888) Contribution to the knowledge of Snakes of Tropical Africa. ''Annals Mag. Nat. Hist''., (6) 1: 322-335. ''Ahoetulla bocagei'', sp. nov.. Angola. 
* GÜNTHER, A.  (1888) Report on a collection of Reptiles and Batrachians sent by [[Emin_Pasha|Emin Pasha]] from Monbuttu, Upper Congo. ''Proc. Zool. Soc. London'', 50-51. 
* GÜNTHER, A. (1895) Notice of Reptiles and Batrachians collected in the Eastern Half of Tropical Africa. ''Annals Mag. Nat. Hist''., (6) 15: 523-529.

==參見==
* [[罗伯特·甘瑟|罗伯特·甘瑟]]，阿尔伯特·甘瑟之子，科学史家

==参考文献==
{{reflist}}

== 外部連結==
{{Wikisource author|Albert Günther}}

{{皇家奖章获得者}}
{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Gunther, Albert C. L. G.}}
[[Category:德国鱼类学家|Category:德国鱼类学家]]
[[Category:英国鱼类学家|Category:英国鱼类学家]]
[[Category:德國動物學家|Category:德國動物學家]]
[[Category:英國動物學家|Category:英國動物學家]]
[[Category:蒂賓根大學校友|Category:蒂賓根大學校友]]
[[Category:德國裔英國人|Category:德國裔英國人]]
[[Category:巴登-符騰堡人|Category:巴登-符騰堡人]]
[[Category:英國皇家學會院士|Category:英國皇家學會院士]]
[[Category:倫敦林奈學會會長|Category:倫敦林奈學會會長]]
[[Category:皇家奖章获得者|Category:皇家奖章获得者]]