{{expand|time=2013-01-21T10:26:13+00:00}}
{{Infobox military person
|name= 阿波加斯特
|image=
|caption=
|allegiance= [[罗马帝国|罗马帝国]]
|rank= 
|commands=[[步军|步军]]
|nickname= 
|birth_date= 
|ethnicity= [[法兰克人|法兰克人]]
|death_date= 394年
|birth_place= 
|death_place= 
|laterwork=
|battles= 
}}
'''阿波加斯特'''（英語：Arbogast，{{bd|？||394年|}}）<ref>Adkins,Lesley Adkins,Roy A.（1998）. ''Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195123326.</ref>，[[羅馬帝國|羅馬帝國]]将领，[[法兰克人|法兰克人]]，步军长官。为[[格拉提安|格拉提安]]统治时期的统帅，在[[狄奧多西一世|狄奧多西一世]]战胜[[马克西姆斯|马克西姆斯]]的战斗中发挥了重要作用。他曾是[[瓦伦提尼安二世|瓦伦提尼安二世]]的最高指挥官（388年），后与其不和。瓦伦提尼安二世死后，他拥立新君，并与[[古罗马的尼科马库斯|尼科马库斯·弗拉维亚努斯]]等人一起-{}-复兴[[罗马|罗马]]传统宗教，后被[[狄奥多西一世|狄奥多西一世]]击败，394年9月自杀身亡。

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

==扩展阅读==
* {{cite book |author=Ambrose |title=''Political Letters and Speeches'' |editor1-first=John Hugo Wolfgang Gideon |editor1-last=Liebeschuetz |publisher=Liverpool University Press |year=2005}}
* {{cite book |author=Gregory of Tours |title=''The History of the Franks Translated with an introduction by Lewis Thorpe'' |location=England |year=1974}}
*{{cite book |authorlink=Orosius |first=Paulus |last=Orosius |title=''The Seven Books of History Against the Pagans'' |publisher=CUA Press |year=2002 |others=E-Book}}
*{{cite book |author=Paulinus of Nola |title=''Life, Letters, and Poems'' |editor1-first=Dennis |editor1-last=Trout |publisher=University of California Press |year=1999}}
*Rufinus. ''Historia Ecclesiastica''. Edited by T. Mommsen. Berlin, 1903-1908.
*Philostorgius. ''Church History''. Edited by Philip Amidon. Society of Biblical Literature, 2007.
*Socrates. ''Historia Ecclesiastica''. With introduction by W.Bright. Oxford, 1878.
*Zosimus. ''Historia Nova, The Decline of Rome''.  Translated by James Buchanan and Harold Davis.  Trinity University Press. Texas, 1967.
*Burns, Thomas S. ''Barbarians Within the Gates of Rome: A Study of Roman Military Policy and the Barbarians, ca. 375-425 A.D''. Indiana University Press, 1994.
*Croke, Brian. "Arbogast and the Death of Valentinian II." Historia 25 (1976): 235-244.
*{{cite book |last1=Friell |first1=Gerard |last2=Williams |first2=Stephen |title=''Theodosius: The Empire at Bay'' |publisher=Yale University Press |year=1994}}
*{{cite book |last=Gibbon |first=Edward |title=''Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'' |year=1792}}
*Hodgkin, Thomas. ''Italy and her Invaders: pt 1-2. The Visigothic Invasion''. Clarendon Press, 1892. E-Book.
*{{cite book |last1=Jones |first1=A.H.M. |first2=J.R. |last2=Martindale |first3=J. |last3=Morris |title=''The Prosopography of the Later Roman Empire'' |volume=Volume I: A.D. 260-395 |publisher=Cambridge |year=1971}}
*Matthews, J. ''Western Aristocracies and Imperial Court AD 364-425''.  Oxford, 1975.
*Salzman, Michele Renee.  ''Ambrose and the Usurpation of Arbogastes and Eugenius: Reflections on Pagan-Christian Conflict Narratives.  Journal of Early Christian Studies'' - Volume 18, Number 2, Summer 2010, pp. 191–223.  The Johns Hopkins University Press.
*Wolfram, Herwig and Dunlap, Thomas. ''History of the Goths''.  University of California Press, 1990.
*{{citation |title=''The Death of Gratian 383'' |work=Cambridge Medieval History |chapter=VIII "The Dynasty of Valentinian and Theodosius the Great" |url=http://www.third-millennium-library.com/MedievalHistory/Cambridge/I/VIII-Theodosius.html |accessdate=December 12–15, 2010 |deadurl=yes |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20110209090025/http://www.third-millennium-library.com/MedievalHistory/Cambridge/I/VIII-Theodosius.html |archivedate=2011-02-09 }}
*{{cite journal |last=Bloch |first=H. |title=''A New Document of the Last Pagan Revival in the West 392-394 A.D.'' |work=Harvard Theological Review |volume=38 |year=1945 |page=225}}
*Potter, David. ''From the Tetrarch To the Theodosians: Later Roman History and Culture 284-450 CE''

==外部链接==
*[http://www.roman-emperors.org/eugene.htm Walter E. Roberts of Emory University lectures on Aborgast]
*[http://greytrek.com/TheHistoria/Historia%20Contents.htm Fred Arbogast "Historical Excerpts on the 4th & 5th Century  Arbogast  Family Origins"]
*''[http://greytrek.com/TheHistoria/Arbogast.htm The Historia]'' of Arbogast and [[Flavius_Bauto|Bauto]]

{{Authority control}}

[[Category:古羅馬將領|Category:古羅馬將領]]
[[Category:法蘭克族人物|Category:法蘭克族人物]]
[[Category:羅馬帝國自殺者|A]]