'''阿蘭德·海廷'''([[英语|英语]]：Arend Heyting，{{bd|1898年|5月9日|1980年|7月9日|catIdx=Heyting, Arend}})是[[荷蘭|荷蘭]][[數學家|數學家]]和[[邏輯學家|邏輯學家]]。他是[[魯伊茲·布勞威爾|魯伊茲·布勞威爾]]在[[阿姆斯特丹大學|阿姆斯特丹大學]]的學生之一，他做了很多工作來使[[直覺主義邏輯|直覺主義邏輯]]立足於成為[[數理邏輯|數理邏輯]]一部分。海廷為了整編布勞威爾做數學研究的方法而對直覺主義邏輯做了首次形式開發。把布勞威爾的名字包含在[[BHK釋義|BHK釋義]]中很大程度上是出於尊敬，因為布勞威爾在原則上反對直覺主義邏輯的任何形式化(並進而把海廷的工作稱為“無果實驗”)。<ref>Walter P. van Stigt (1990). ''Brouwer's Intuitionism''. Amsterdam: North Holland.</ref>

海廷生於[[荷蘭|荷蘭]][[阿姆斯特丹|阿姆斯特丹]]，卒於[[瑞士|瑞士]][[盧加諾|盧加諾]]。

==參見==
* [[海廷代數|海廷代數]]
* [[海廷算術|海廷算術]]

==引用==
<references/>
==選定出版物==

*Heyting, A. (1956) Intuitionism. An introduction. North-Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam.

*Heyting, A. (1974) Mathematische Grundlagenforschung, Intuitionismus, Beweistheorie. (German) Reprint. Springer-Verlag, Berlin–New York.

*Heijting, A. (1973) Address to Professor A. Robinson. At the occasion of the Brouwer memorial lecture given by Prof. A.Robinson on the 26th April 1973. Nieuw Arch. Wisk. (3) 21, pp. 134—137.

*Heyting, A. (1966) Intuitionism: An introduction. Second revised edition North-Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam.

*Heyting, A. (1962) After thirty years. 1962 Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science (Proc. 1960 Internat. Congr.) pp. 194—197 Stanford Univ. Press, Stanford, Calif.

*Heyting, A. (1980) Axiomatic projective geometry. Second edition. Bibliotheca Mathematica [Mathematics Library], V. Wolters-Noordhoff Scientific Publications, Ltd., Groningen; North-Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam–New York.

*Heyting, A. (1963) Axiomatic projective geometry. Bibliotheca Mathematica, Vol. V. Interscience Publishers John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York; P. Noordhoff N.V., Groningen; North-Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam.

*Heyting, A. (1959) Axioms for intuitionistic plane affine geometry. The axiomatic method. With special reference to geometry and physics. Proceedings of an International Symposium held at the Univ. of Calif., Berkeley, Dec. 26, 1957–Jan 4, 1958 (edited by L. Henkin, P. Suppes and A. Tarski) pp. 160—173 Studies in Logic and the Foundations of Mathematics North-Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam.

*Heyting, A. (1941) Untersuchungen ber intuitionistische Algebra. (German) Verh. Nederl. Akad. Wetensch. Afd. Natuurk. Sect. 1. 18. no. 2, 36 pp.

==外部連結==
*{{MacTutor Biography|id=Heyting}}
*{{MathGenealogy|id=45623}}

{{Authority control}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Heyting, Arend}}
[[Category:荷蘭數學家|Category:荷蘭數學家]]
[[Category:邏輯學家|Category:邏輯學家]]
[[Category:阿姆斯特丹大學校友|H]]