{{Drugbox
| Verifiedfields = changed
| Watchedfields = changed
| verifiedrevid = 405811871
| IUPAC_name = (''R'')-(+)-2-([3-methyl-4-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-2-yl]methylsulfinyl)-1''H''-benzo[d]imidazole
| image = File:Dexlansoprazole.svg
| width = 245

<!--Clinical data-->
| tradename = Kapidex, Dexilant, 得喜胃通
| Drugs.com = {{drugs.com|monograph|dexlansoprazole}}
| MedlinePlus = a695020
| licence_US = Dexlansoprazole
| pregnancy_AU =  
| pregnancy_US = B
| legal_US = Rx-only
| legal_status =  
| routes_of_administration = [[口服给药|口服给药]]

<!--Pharmacokinetic data-->
| bioavailability =  
| protein_bound =  
| metabolism =  
| elimination_half-life =  
| excretion = 50% 腎臟排出，以及 47% 糞便排出<ref name=Label>[http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2012/022287s014lbl.pdf Product Information: DEXILANT® delayed release oral capsules, dexlansoprazole delayed release oral capsules] {{Wayback|url=http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2012/022287s014lbl.pdf |date=20170228000225 }}. Takeda Pharmaceuticals , Inc., Deerfield, IL, 2010. Revised: September 2012</ref>

<!--Identifiers-->
| IUPHAR_ligand = 5487
| CAS_number_Ref = {{cascite|correct|??}}
| CAS_number = 138530-94-6
| ATC_prefix = A02
| ATC_suffix = BC06
| DrugBank_Ref = {{drugbankcite|correct|drugbank}}
| UNII_Ref = {{fdacite|changed|FDA}}
| UNII = UYE4T5I70X
| KEGG_Ref = {{keggcite|correct|kegg}}
| KEGG = D08903
| ChEMBL_Ref = {{ebicite|changed|EBI}}
| ChEMBL = 1201863
|  PubChem = 9578005
|  ChemSpiderID_Ref = {{chemspidercite|changed|chemspider}}
| ChemSpiderID = 7852369
|  StdInChI_Ref = {{stdinchicite|changed|chemspider}}
| StdInChI = 1S/C16H14F3N3O2S/c1-10-13(20-7-6-14(10)24-9-16(17,18)19)8-25(23)15-21-11-4-2-3-5-12(11)22-15/h2-7H,8-9H2,1H3,(H,21,22)/t25-/m1/s1
|  StdInChIKey_Ref = {{stdinchicite|changed|chemspider}}
| StdInChIKey = MJIHNNLFOKEZEW-RUZDIDTESA-N

<!--Chemical data-->
| C=16 | H=14 | F=3 | N=3 | O=2 | S=1 
| molecular_weight = 369.363 g/mol
| smiles = n1c2ccccc2[nH]c1[S@](=O)Cc3nccc(c3C)OCC(F)(F)F
}}
{{medical}}
'''右旋蘭索拉唑'''（dexlansoprazole、[[国际非专利药品名称|INN]]，商品名 '''Kapidex'''，'''Dexilant'''、右蘭索拉唑，中文商標名：得喜胃通 <small>60毫克/緩釋膠囊</small>）是一種[[氫離子幫浦阻斷劑|質子泵抑製劑]]（PPI）。由[[日本|日本]][[武田藥品|武田藥品]]銷售，可由各國分裝包裝。主要治療{{le|食管炎|esophagitis|糜爛性食管炎}}，以及[[胃食道逆流|胃食管反流病]]。它與其它的質子泵抑製劑（PPI）具有類似的效力。<ref name=TI(99)2016>{{cite journal |journal=Therapeutics letter |publisher={{le|主動療法的協會|Therapeutics Initiative|Therapeutics Initiative}} |issue=99 |date=28 June 2016 |title=Comparative effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors |url=http://www.ti.ubc.ca/2016/06/28/99-comparative-effectiveness-proton-pump-inhibitors/ |accessdate=14 July 2016 |archive-date=2016-08-22 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160822040538/http://www.ti.ubc.ca/2016/06/28/99-comparative-effectiveness-proton-pump-inhibitors/ |dead-url=no }}</ref>

==醫療用途==
右旋蘭索拉唑是用於持續療合{{le|食管炎|Esophagitis|糜爛性食管炎}}，以及治療[[胃食道逆流|胃食管反流病]]（GERD）的[[胃灼熱|胃灼熱]](heartburn)。<ref name=Label/>它比[[蘭索拉唑|蘭索拉唑]](Lansoprazole)的療效來得長，其所經常進行運作的相關化學程序卻來得少。<ref name=Behm2011>Behm BW, Peura DA. Dexlansoprazole MR for the management of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Aug;5(4):439-45. PMID 21780890</ref>不過，沒有充分的證據表明它比其他的 PPI 有更好的療效。<ref name=TI(99)2016/>基本上屬於醫師[[處方藥|處方藥]]，一般需照過[[上消化道内视镜|上消化道内视镜]]後才開的(1-4個月)一期之慢性治療藥物。

==不利影響==
在臨床試驗報告的最顯著的不良反應（≥2％）為腹瀉、腹痛、噁心、上呼吸道感染、嘔吐，以及脹氣。<ref name=Label/>

==作用機理==
像[[蘭索拉唑|蘭索拉唑]]（逸潰定/泰克胃通）一樣，右旋蘭索拉唑與{{le|質子泵|Proton pump}}永久性結合併阻斷它，防止形成[[胃酸|胃酸]]。<ref name=Behm2011/>

==化學==
右旋蘭索拉唑是[[蘭索拉唑|蘭索拉唑]]的(''R'')-(+)-[[对映异构|对映异构]]，也就是為(''R'')-(+)與(''S'')-(−)-對映異構的[[外消旋混合物|外消旋混合物]]。<ref name=Behm2011/> <!--The Takeda drug has a dual release [[pharmaceutical_formulation|pharmaceutical formulation]], with two types of granules of dexlansoprazole, each with a coating that dissolves at a different [[pH|pH]] level.<ref name=Behm2011/>
-->

==藥代動力學==
<!--Dexlansoprazole ((''R'')-(+)-lansoprazole) has the same binding affinity to the proton pump as the (''S'')-enantiomer, but is associated with a  three- to five-fold greater [[Area_under_the_curve_(pharmacokinetics)|area under the plasma drug concentration time curve (AUC)]] compared with (''S'')-lansoprazole.<ref name=Behm2011/> With its dual release [[pharmaceutical_formulation|pharmaceutical formulation]], the first quick release produces a plasma peak concentration about one hour after application, with a second retarded release producing another peak about four hours later.<ref name=Takeda_32521>[http://www.takeda.com/press/article_32521.html FDA Approves KAPIDEX (dexlansoprazole) delayed release capsules for the Treatment of GERD]</ref><ref>{{cite journal|last=Metz|first=DC|date=1 May 2009|title=Review article: dual delayed release formulation of dexlansoprazole MR, a novel approach to overcome the limitations of conventional single release proton pump inhibitor therapy|journal=Aliment Pharmacol Ther|volume=29|issue=9|pages=928–37|doi=10.1111/j.1365-2036.2009.03984.x|pmid=19298580|last2=Vakily|first2=M|last3=Dixit|first3=T|last4=Mulford|first4=D}}</ref> -->截至2009年11月，這種形式的所釋放的臨床意義尚未顯示。

==歷史==
右旋蘭索拉唑於2009年被[[美国食品药品监督管理局|美国食品药品监督管理局]]（FDA）批准上市；並於2010年在加拿大、及2011年在墨西哥亦同批准上市。<ref name=Behm2011/>
<!--
Since Kapidex was approved in 2009, there have been reports of dispensing errors because of confusion with the drugs Casodex ([[bicalutamide|bicalutamide]]) and Kadian ([[morphine|morphine]]), which have very different uses from Kapidex and from each other.  In  2010, the FDA approved a name change for Kapidex to avoid confusion with the two other medications and Takeda began marketing it under the new name Dexilant.<ref>{{cite news|url=http://www.takeda.com/press/article_35868.html|title=KAPIDEX (dexlansoprazole) Renamed DEXILANT in U.S. to Avoid Name Confusion|publisher=Takeda|date=4 March 2010}}</ref>-->[[因賽達製藥公司|因賽達製藥公司]](Incepta Pharmaceuticals)在[[孟加拉國|孟加拉國]]以Delanix商標發行。

==註釋==
{{reflist|2}}

==參見==
*[[氫離子幫浦阻斷劑|氫離子幫浦阻斷劑]]
*[[维生素B12|维生素B12]]
*[[鈣營養|鈣營養]]

==外部連結==
*[https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4697039/ Dexlansoprazole – a new-generation proton pump inhibitor]
*[https://www.webmd.com/drugs/2/drug-151809/dexlansoprazole-oral/details Dexlansoprazole Oral : Uses, Side Effects, Interactions, Pictures, Warnings & Dosing - WebMD]{{Wayback|url=https://www.webmd.com/drugs/2/drug-151809/dexlansoprazole-oral/details |date=20180618204142 }}

{{消化道溃疡和胃食管反流病治疗药物}}

[[Category:质子泵抑制剂|Category:质子泵抑制剂]]
[[Category:苯并咪唑|Category:苯并咪唑]]
[[Category:亚砜|Category:亚砜]]
[[Category:吡啶|Category:吡啶]]
[[Category:对映纯药物|Category:对映纯药物]]
[[Category:芳香醚|Category:芳香醚]]
[[Category:有机氟化合物|Category:有机氟化合物]]
[[Category:三氟甲氧基化合物|Category:三氟甲氧基化合物]]