{{Expand language|1=en|time=2020-07-10T17:50:55+00:00}}
'''黑人權力'''是一個政治標語以及協助非洲後裔達到自決的各種相關意識形態的名稱。過往被美國的非裔美國人所使用。其主要在1960年代晚期以及1970年代早期，強調種族的驕傲以及黑色政治與文化機構的創立，進而培養與促進黑人的集體利益以及黑人價值。

「黑人權力」表達了一系列的政治目標，從防禦種族壓迫到建立社會機構與自給自足的經濟體系。
<ref>Scott, James. Wilson. (1976). The black revolts: racial stratification in the U.S.A.:the politics of estate,caste,and class in the American society.Cambridge,Mass: Schenkman Pub.Jump up</ref>

== 参考资料 ==
{{Reflist|30em}}
==外部連結==
* [https://snccdigital.org/resources/themes/black-power/ SNCC Digital Gateway: Black Power]{{Wayback|url=https://snccdigital.org/resources/themes/black-power/ |date=20171110061625 }}, Digital documentary website created by the SNCC Legacy Project and Duke University, telling the story of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee & grassroots organizing from the inside-out
* [http://www.penielejoseph.com Website of Dr. Peniel E. Joseph]{{Wayback|url=http://www.penielejoseph.com/ |date=20200421215734 }}, Professor of African-American Studies, Scholar of African American history and frequent commentator on civil rights, race and democracy issues
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20100419065102/http://stokely-carmichael.com/ Stokely-Carmichael.com]—Focus on Carmichael's life and rhetoric
* [http://www.newBlack Panther Party.com/ The official website of the New Black Panther Party]{{dead link|date=November 2016 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20061008142331/http://www.iww.org/culture/biography/HubertHarrison1.shtml Hubert Harrison]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20110228100851/http://www.iww.org/culture/biography/BenFletcher1.shtml Ben Fletcher]
* [http://harlemcore.com   A History of Harlem CORE]{{Wayback|url=http://harlemcore.com/ |date=20200220021644 }}
* [http://www.democracynow.org/2011/1/24/the_black_power_mixtape_danny_glover ''The Black Power Mixtape'']{{Wayback|url=http://www.democracynow.org/2011/1/24/the_black_power_mixtape_danny_glover |date=20171210181107 }} – New Documentary Featuring [[安吉拉·戴维斯|Angela Davis]], [[Huey_P._Newton|Huey P. Newton]], & [[Stokely_Carmichael|Stokely Carmichael]]—video report by ''[[Democracy_Now!|Democracy Now!]]''

{{Black Panther Party}}

[[Category:政治与种族|Category:政治与种族]]
[[Category:非洲裔美國人文化|Category:非洲裔美國人文化]]
[[Category:非裔美國人歷史|Category:非裔美國人歷史]]
[[Category:African_and_Black_nationalism|Category:African and Black nationalism]]
[[Category:Black_Power|Category:Black Power]]