{{Expand language|1=en|time=2020-04-19T10:19:37+00:00}}
'''黑蒜'''是一种加工过的大蒜食品。
==製作==

把普通[[大蒜|大蒜]]置于60摄氏度左右高温度的环境下一个月以上直至发生[[梅納反應|梅納反應]]制成的，在这一温度下大多数微生物都不能生存，因此这一过程并不是[[发酵|发酵]]<ref>{{cite web|author1=[http://www.guokr.com/i/1239530013/ 云无心]|title=黑蒜真有神奇功效吗？|url=http://www.guokr.com/article/439014|website=[[果壳网|果壳网]]|accessdate=2017-01-20|date=2014-08-18|archive-date=2020-06-13|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200613203523/https://www.guokr.com/article/439014/|dead-url=no}}</ref>。然而有研究發現生蒜和黑蒜中有抗熱的[[內共生細菌|內共生細菌]]，有可能也和黑蒜的製作有關<ref name="pmid28990361">{{cite journal | vauthors = Qiu Z, Lu X, Li N, Zhang M, Qiao X | title = Characterization of garlic endophytes isolated from the black garlic processing | journal = MicrobiologyOpen | volume = 7 | issue = 1 | pages = e00547| date = February 2018 | pmid = 28990361 | pmc = 5822338 | doi = 10.1002/mbo3.547 | quote = <small>Seven kinds of Bacillus were found from garlic and black garlic, respectively. Further studies demonstrated that the total bacteria and endophytes showed a sharp decrease firstly, followed by a rapid rise, then maintained at a certain level, and finally slowed down during the black garlic processing. B. subtilis, B. methylotrophicus, and B. amyloliquefaciens were the dominant strains. The selected strains were capable of fermenting glucose, lactose, sucrose, and garlic polysaccharide to produce acid but no gas, with a strong ability of heat resistance. The results indicated that there were a certain number of garlic endophytes during the black garlic processing, and Bacillus was the dominant strains under the conventional culture-dependent methods.</small>}}</ref><ref name="pmid28990361" /><ref name="pmid29579944">{{cite journal | vauthors = Qiu Z, Li N, Lu X, Zheng Z, Zhang M, Qiao X | title = Characterization of microbial community structure and metabolic potential using Illumina MiSeq platform during the black garlic processing | journal = Food Research International (Ottawa, Ont.) | volume = 106 | issue = | pages = 428–438 | date = April 2018 | pmid = 29579944 | doi = 10.1016/j.foodres.2017.12.081 }}</ref>。

== 質感 ==
黑蒜没有鲜蒜的刺激性气味，質感较好。

== 保健功效 ==
黑蒜是否具有独特的保健功效现在尚不明确<ref>{{cite web|author1=任磊磊|title=黑蒜比生蒜贵10倍 专家：营养价值被过分夸大|url=http://news.xinhuanet.com/food/2014-10/24/c_127135623.htm|website=[[新华网|新华网]]|accessdate=2017-01-20|date=2014年10月24日|deadurl=yes|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20170613231117/http://news.xinhuanet.com/food/2014-10/24/c_127135623.htm|archivedate=2017年6月13日}}</ref>。

鲜蒜中杀菌的主要成分大蒜素对温度敏感，因此黑蒜不具有鲜蒜的杀菌功效<ref>{{cite journal|last1=FUJISAWA|first1=Hiroyuki|last2=SUMA|first2=Kaoru|last3=ORIGUCHI|first3=Kana|last4=SEKI|first4=Taiichiro|last5=ARIGA|first5=Toyohiko|title=Thermostability of Allicin Determined by Chemical and Biological Assays|journal=Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Biochemistry|date=2014-05-22|volume=72|issue=11|pages=2877–2883|doi=10.1271/bbb.80381|url=http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1271/bbb.80381|accessdate=2017-01-20|archive-date=2021-01-16|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210116153238/https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1271/bbb.80381|dead-url=no}}</ref>。

==参考资料==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:大蒜|Category:大蒜]]
[[Category:加工食品|Category:加工食品]]