{{other uses}}
{{Infobox mineral
|category  = Native minerals
|boxwidth  =
|boxbgcolor = #7da7d9
|image   = Carbonado diamondites Bangui region, Central African Republic.jpg
|alt     = Sometimes cut as gemstones - often requiring lasers -, but have a granular appearance. Usually cracked in high-pressure presses for industrial usage.
|caption  = 三枚採自中非共和國的黑鑽石
|formula  = [[碳|C]]
|molweight = {{val|12.01|ul=u}}
|color   = 一般為黑色，也有灰色的、又或混雜不同層次的綠色與棕色
|habit   = [[Polycrystalline|Polycrystalline]]
|system   = Isometric-hexoctahedral ([[立方晶系|立方]])
|twinning  =
|cleavage  =
|fracture  = Irregular torn surfaces
|mohs    = 10
|luster = [[光泽_(矿物)#金刚光泽|金刚光泽]]
|polish   = Adamantine
|refractive  =
|opticalprop  = None
|birefringence = None
|dispersion  =
|pleochroism  = None
|streak    = White
|gravity    = {{val|3.52|0.01}}
|density    = 3.5–{{val|3.53|ul=g/cm3}}
}}

'''黑鑽石'''（{{lang|en|Carbonado}}；又稱'''黑金剛石'''或'''圓粒金剛石'''）是一種天然[[钻石|钻石]]當中其中一種[[韌性_(科學)|韌性]]最強的形態。這種鑽石屬於一種不純淨的、高密度、[[孔隙度|多孔隙]]的鑽石[[晶粒|晶粒]]，由[[金剛石|金剛石]]、[[石墨|石墨]]及[[无定形碳|无定形碳]]組成，而孔隙內或會填有微小晶粒或還原了的金屬離子，形成其多變的色彩<ref>{{cite book |editor-last=Kroschwitz |editor-first=Jacqueline I.|title=Kirk-Othmer encyclopedia of chemical technology |year=2004 |publisher=J. Wiley |location=Hoboken, NJ (USA) |isbn=9780471484943|page=10|edition=5th|language=en}}</ref>。這些黑鑽石主要發現於中緯度的[[中非共和國|中非共和國]]及[[巴西|巴西]]的[[沖積層|沖積]]礦床。它的自然顏色是黑色或暗灰色，比其它鑽石有更多更[[孔隙率|孔隙]]。

==不尋常的性質==
除了另行說明外，黑鑽石的特點在這部分是由Heaney et al. (2005)的摘要指出{{r|Heaney}}。

黑鑽石一般都是由[[豌豆|豌豆]]大小或更大的多孔微小的黑色晶體的聚合體。最獨特的是，只有中非共和國及巴西能發現黑鑽石，極小部分發現在南非共和國，但卻沒有在通常發現鑽石的[[慶伯利岩|慶伯利岩]]中發現。利用{{tsl|en|isotope analysis|同位素分析}}黑鑽石晶體內的[[铅|铅]]，發現這些晶體約於3億年前形成；然而，黑鑽石卻只發現於年輕的[[沉积岩|沉积岩]]中<ref name="Heaney">{{cite journal |last1=Heaney |first1=P. J. |last2=Vicenzi |first2=E. P. |last3=De |first3=S. |title=Strange Diamonds: the Mysterious Origins of Carbonado and Framesite|journal=Elements|volume=1|page=85|year=2005|doi=10.2113/gselements.1.2.85|issue=2}}</ref>。
鑽石中包含的礦物顆粒已被廣泛研究，以尋找鑽石來源的線索。一些典型的鑽石含有常見的{{tsl|en|mantle (geology)|地幔}}礦物包裹體，如{{tsl|en|pyrope|鎂鋁榴石}}和{{tsl|en|forsterite|鎂橄欖石}}，但在黑金剛石中尚未觀察到此類地幔礦物。相比之下，一些碳酸鹽含有[[地壳|地壳]]特徵礦物的自生包裹體；內含物不一定確定地殼中鑽石的形成，因為雖然明顯的晶體內含物出現在黑鑽石中常見的孔隙中，但它們可能是在黑鑽石形成後引入的。發現地殼中稀有或幾乎不存在的其他礦物的夾雜物至少部分包含在金剛石中，而不僅僅是在孔隙中：在這些其他礦物中，含有[[硅|硅]]、[[碳化硅|碳化硅]]及[[铁|铁]]‑[[镍|镍]]的成分。沒有發現獨特的高壓礦物，包括六方碳的[[同质异形体|同质异形体]][[藍絲黛爾石|藍絲黛爾石]]，作為夾雜物出現在黑鑽石中，儘管黑鑽石有可能是由[[隕石|隕石]]撞擊而形成的<ref name=Heaney/>。
[[同位素|同位素]]的研究揭示更多關於黑鑽石來源的線索：黑鑽石內碳的同位數慎非常低，相比一般的鑽石，黑鑽石內碳13比碳12少得很多<ref name=Heaney/>。
Carbonado exhibits strong luminescence (<!-- [[photoluminescence|photoluminescence]] -->[[光致发光|光致发光]] and <!-- [[cathodoluminescence|cathodoluminescence]] -->[[阴极射线发光|阴极射线发光]]) induced by <!-- [[nitrogen|nitrogen]] -->[[氮|氮]] and by <!-- [[vacancy_(chemistry)|vacancies]] -->[[晶格空位|晶格空位]] existing in the crystal lattice. Luminescence halos are present around radioactive inclusions, and it is suggested that the radiation damage occurred after formation of the carbonados,<ref>{{cite journal|author=Kagi, H., Sato, S., Akagi, T., and Kanda, H., 2007|title=Generation history of carbonado inferred from photoluminescence spectra, cathodoluminescence imaging, and carbon-isotopic composition|journal=American Mineralogist |volume=92|pages=217–224|year=2007|url=http://www.minsocam.org/msa/ammin/toc/Abstracts/2007_Abstracts/Jan07_Abstracts/Kagi_p217_07.pdf|doi=10.2138/am.2007.1957|bibcode=2007AmMin..92..217K}}</ref> an observation perhaps pertinent to the radiation hypothesis listed below.
===Toughness vs. hardness===
Carbonado’s polycrystalline texture makes it more durable than a monocrystalline diamond. It is the same hardness as other types of diamond, but it is much tougher. Its polycrystalline texture allows a single abrasive granule to present multiple crystallographic orientations of the diamond crystal at the cutting surface and the hardest orientation does the most aggressive cutting.
Cutting tools made with carbonado diamond last longer and require less maintenance. Carbonado was recognized as a super abrasive in the 1800s and was more highly valued for its cutting and grinding effectiveness over other varieties of diamond. The problem with carbonado is its rarity. It is only found in two countries, and total worldwide production has only been a few tons of material. Carbonado is not an important commodity in today's abrasive market.
In the late 1800s, when De Beers was developing their diamond mines in South Africa, they preferred carbonado over their own diamonds for diamond drilling. Gardner F. Williams, General Manager of De Beers Consolidated Mines, Ltd. lamented: "Round or shot {{tsl|en|boart||boart}} is found in the mines at Kimberley and is very valuable for use in diamond drilling since the Brazilian carbonado has become so scarce."<ref>cite website|auhor=Hobart M. King, PhD, GIA Graduate Gemologist|year=2022|https://geology.com/diamond/carbonado/</ref>

== 起源假說 ==
黑鑽石的起源有爭議，以下列出部分建議的起源假說：
# 有機碳在地球內部的高壓下直接轉換，如最常見的鑽石形成假說。這樣黑鑽石應該能於全球發現，但現時僅發現於部分地區。
# {{tsl|en|Shock metamorphism|衝擊變質作用}}，如隕石在地球表面衝擊引起的。但是，絕大部分衝擊引成的六晶體都是[[六方金剛石|六方金剛石]]，與黑鑽石不同。
# 自發裂變的鈾和釷輻射誘發的形成。但輻射產生的分裂能量太小，不能創造大顆粒晶體（指直徑0.5毫米以上）的金剛石。
# 由於與長時間的超級閃電雷擊相關的火變質快速過程，在漫長的地質時期中，在減少的富含有機物沉積物中累積的局部形成，已知與相似海拔的碳金剛石礦床具有相似的全球分佈。
# 形成于一颗在太阳系区域附近的前代巨型恒星内部，然後通过[[#地外起源假說|超新星爆发]]来到地球<ref name=r1/>。
# 起源于星际物质，由於小行星的撞擊落到地球，而非源于[[#地外起源假說|爆发的恒星内部]]<ref name=r1>{{Cite journal
 |url=http://www.fiu.edu/~jgara002/research%20statement/carbonado/carbonado-infrared.htm
 |dead-url=yes
 |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20070809204752/http://www.fiu.edu/~jgara002/research%20statement/carbonado/carbonado-infrared.htm
 |last1=Garai
 |first1=Jozsef
 |last2=Haggerty
 |first2=Stephen E.
 |last3=Rekhi
 |first3=Sandeep
 |last4=Chance
 |first4=Mark
 |year=2006
 |title=Infrared Absorption Investigations Confirm the Extraterrestrial Origin of Carbonado-Diamonds
 |journal=''[[The_Astrophysical_Journal|The Astrophysical Journal]]''
 |issn=0004-637X
 |volume=653
 |issue=2
 |pages=L153–L156
 |doi=10.1086/510451
 |arxiv=physics/0608014
 |bibcode=2006ApJ...653L.153G 
 |date=2006-12-20
 |archive-date=2007-08-09
 |language=en}}。
研究顯示這些黑鑽石的紅外線吸收頻譜與地外來源的鑽石的吸收頻譜近似；
selected significant peaks are due to trace abundances of the elements <!-- [[nitrogen|nitrogen]] -->[[氮|氮]] and <!-- [[hydrogen|hydrogen]] -->[[氢|氢]].
The researchers concluded with the assumption that the mineral necessarily formed in an interstellar environment. In this sense, carbonado are theorized to be akin to carbon-rich cosmic dust, likely having formed in an environment near carbon stars. The diamonds were suggested to have been fragments of a body of asteroid size that subsequently fell to Earth as meteorites.</ref>
截至2008年，上述六個有關黑鑽石形成的假說都未有得到廣泛認同<ref>{{cite journal|last1=Rondeau|first1=B|last2=Sautter|first2=V|last3=Barjon|first3=J|title=New columnar texture of carbonado: Cathodoluminescence study|journal=Diamond and Related Materials|volume=17|page=1897|year=2008|doi=10.1016/j.diamond.2008.04.006|issue=11|bibcode= 2008DRM....17.1897R }}</ref>；此外，有關黑鑽石內碳13和碳12的比例亦與當地沉積物的比例相同。

=== 地外起源假說 ===
黑鑽石地外起源假說的支持者認為黑鑽石源於380億年前一顆[[超新星|超新星]]爆炸時噴射出來的物質<ref>{{Cite news|url=https://www.nytimes.com/1996/09/17/science/giant-black-diamonds-of-mysterious-origin-may-hail-from-space.html|title=Giant Black Diamonds Of Mysterious Origin May Hail From Space|last=Broad|first=William J.|date=1996-09-17|newspaper=The New York Times|issn=0362-4331|access-date=2016-09-20}}</ref><ref name=r1 />。After coalescing and drifting through <!-- [[outer_space|outer space]] -->[[外层空间|外层空间]] for about one and a half billion years, a large mass fell to earth as a <!-- [[meteorite|meteorite]] -->[[隕石|隕石]] approximately 2.3 billion years ago. It possibly fragmented during entry into the Earth's atmosphere and impacted in a region which would much later <!-- [[plate_tectonics|split]] -->[[板块构造论|板块构造论]] into <!-- [[Brazil|Brazil]] -->[[巴西|巴西]] and the <!-- [[Central_African_Republic|Central African Republic]] -->[[中非共和國|中非共和國]], assumed to be the only two known locations of carbonado-diamond deposits (which is not an accurate representation of the distribution of carbonado diamondite, the poly-crystaline form).
不過介乎兩個國家之間的[[喀麥隆|喀麥隆]]並未有黑鑽石開採過的紀錄。

== 最大已切割鑽石 ==
現時世上最大的已切割鑽石是一顆名為「{{tsl|en|The Enigma (diamond)||The Enigma}}」的黑鑽石，達到555.55克拉，擁有55個切面，目前估價為500萬英鎊（約新台幣1.88億元）<ref>{{Cite web|date=2022-01-30|title=The Black Diamond, an Engima Weighing 555.55 Carats {{!}} GeoRarities|url=https://georarities.com/2022/01/30/the-black-diamond-an-engima-weighing-555-55-carats/|access-date=2022-01-31|language=en-US}}</ref><ref name="ltn">{{cite news |url=https://news.ltn.com.tw/news/world/breakingnews/3804408 |title=來自外太空隕石！ 555克拉黑鑽石拍賣 估價近2億元 |newspaper=[[自由時報|自由時報]] |date=2022-01-18 |access-date=2022-02-09 |language=zh-hant}}</ref>。

== 參見 ==
*[[超硬材料|超硬材料]]
*{{annotated link|Amsterdam Diamond}} 
*{{annotated link|Bort}} 
*{{annotated link|Korloff Noir}} 
*{{annotated link|Material properties of diamond}} 
*{{annotated link|Popigai crater#Diamond deposits|Popigai diamonds}} 
*{{annotated link|Sergio (carbonado)}} 
*{{annotated link|Spirit of de Grisogono Diamond}} 
*{{annotated link|Superhard material}}

== 參考資料 ==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部連結 ==
{{Commons category|Carbonado (mineral)}}
{{EB1911 poster|Carbonado}}
{{Wiktionary}}
*[https://www.nsf.gov/news/mmg/mmg_disp.cfm?med_id=59860&from=mn Photo of porous carbonado] at National Science Foundation
*[https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/diamond/sky.html Photo of glossy carbonado and article on possible extraterrestrial origins] at PBS Nova
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20111228141115/https://www.sciencedaily.com/videos/2007/0612-mystery_diamonds.htm Mystery Diamonds: Geoscientists Investigate Rare Carbon Formation] ScienceDaily (June 1, 2007) Story
* {{cite news |url=https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/01/070109172003.htm |title=Diamonds From Outer Space: Geologists Discover Origin Of Earth's Mysterious Black Diamonds |publisher=ScienceDaily |date=2007-01-09 |language=en}}

[[Category:鑽石|Category:鑽石]]