{{NoteTA|G1=Butterfly}}
{{Automatic Taxobox
| taxon = Miletini
| authority = Reuter, 1896
| fossil_range = {{fossilrange|43|0|earliest=49.7}}<small>從古近紀[[始新世|始新世]]至今<ref>Kaliszewska, Z. A., Lohman, D. J., Sommer, K., Adelson, G., Rand, D. B., Mathew, J., ... & Pierce, N. E. (2015). When caterpillars attack: biogeography and life history evolution of the Miletinae (Lepidoptera: Lycaenidae). Evolution, 69(3), 571-588. {{en}}</ref></small>
| image = AllotinusFallaxApusUpUnAC1.jpg
| image_caption = [[指名銼灰蝶|指名銼灰蝶]]<br />''Allotinus fallax apus'' ♀
| type_genus = [[雲灰蝶屬|雲灰蝶屬]]<br />''Miletus''
| type_genus_authority = Hübner, [1819]
| subdivision_ranks = 屬
| subdivision = 
* [[銼灰蝶屬|銼灰蝶屬]] ''Allotinus''
* [[隴灰蝶屬|隴灰蝶屬]] ''Logania''
* [[媚灰蝶屬|媚灰蝶屬]] ''Megalopalpus''
* [[雲灰蝶屬|雲灰蝶屬]] ''Miletus''
}}

'''雲灰蝶族'''（學名：''Miletini''）是[[灰蝶科|灰蝶科]][[雲灰蝶亞科|雲灰蝶亞科]]裡的一個[[族_(生物)|族]]。物種分佈[[舊大陸|舊大陸]]，[[非洲|非洲]]至[[新畿內亞|新畿內亞]]一帶<ref>Brower, Andrew V. Z. 2007. Miletini Reuter 1896. Version 18 June 2007 (under construction). http://tolweb.org/Miletini/106349/2007.06.18 {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/Miletini/106349/2007.06.18 |date=20191201004323 }} in The Tree of Life Web Project, http://tolweb.org/ {{Wayback|url=http://tolweb.org/ |date=20110515100516 }}</ref>。

== 分類 ==
{{clade
|label1='''雲灰蝶族'''
|1={{clade
|1=[[媚灰蝶屬|媚灰蝶屬]] ''Megalopalpus''
|2={{clade
|1=[[隴灰蝶屬|隴灰蝶屬]] ''Logania''
|2={{clade
|1=[[雲灰蝶屬|雲灰蝶屬]] ''Miletus''
|2=[[銼灰蝶屬|銼灰蝶屬]] ''Allotinus''}}}}}}}}

== 腳註 ==
{{reflist}}

== 參考 ==
* {{Commonscat-inline|Miletini}}
* {{Wikispecies-inline| Miletini}}
* Ackery, P. R., Smith, C. R. & Vane-Wright, R. I. (ed.) 1995 Carcasson's African butterflies. Canberra: CSIRO.
* Corbet, A. S., Pendlebury, H. M. & Eliot, J. N. 1992 The butterflies of the Malay Peninsula. Kuala Lumpur: Malayan Nature Society.
* Eliot, J. N. 1973 The higher classification of the Lycaenidae (Lepidoptera): a tentative arrangement. Bull. Br. Mus. Nat. Hist. (Ent.) 28, 371-505, 6 pls.
* Parsons, M. 1999 The butterflies of Papua New Guinea: their systematics and biology. San Diego: Academic Press.
* Vane-Wright, R. I. & de Jong, R. 2003 The butterflies of Sulawesi: annotated checklist for a critical island fauna. Zoologische Verhandelingen 343, 1-267.
* {{Cite book | author = 寿建新 周尧 李宇飞 | title = 世界蝴蝶分類名錄 | location = 中國 | publisher = 陝西科學技術出版社 | date = 2006-04-01 | ISBN = 9787536936768 | language= zh-hans }}

{{雲灰蝶亞科}}
{{Taxonbar}}
[[Category:_1896年描述的分类群|]]
[[Category:雲灰蝶族|*]]
[[Category:雲灰蝶亞科|Category:雲灰蝶亞科]]