'''區連'''（{{bd|？||？||}}）是[[占城|占城]]第一王朝的建立者。《[[後漢書|後漢書]]》作'''區憐'''，<ref>《後漢書卷八十六·南蠻西南夷列傳》:"永和二年，日南、象林徼外蛮夷區憐等数千人攻象林县，烧城寺，杀长吏"</ref>《[[梁書|梁書]]》作'''區達'''，<ref>《梁書卷五十四·諸夷·海南諸國·林邑國》</ref>區連可能是占婆碑文中的「'''釋利摩羅'''」（Sri Mara），<ref>邱新民, ''东南亚文化交通史'' Singapore Society of Asian Studies - 1984- Page 184 "晋书卷九十七林邑国传说: "后汉末,县功曹姓区,有子日连,杀令自立为王,子孙相承"。其详细情形,据水经注卷三十六引林邑记说: "国无文史,失其籌代,世数难详"。但据一般的研究,以为林邑王统的始祖,是碑文中所载的释利摩罗"</ref><ref>Jump up ^Milton Walter Meyer Asia: A Concise History 1997 Page 63 "around the beginning of the third century a Hindu ruler named Sri Mara founded the kingdom of Champa and conquered ..."</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.friesian.com/perigoku.htm#champa|title=The Periphery of China --Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Burma, Tibet, and Mongolia|accessdate=2009-07-04|archive-date=2009-05-12|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20090512162426/http://www.friesian.com/perigoku.htm#champa|dead-url=no}}</ref>但也有學者認為「釋利摩羅」實為[[扶南|扶南]]國王[[范師蔓|范師蔓]]。<ref>Dougald J. W. O'Reilly  Early Civilizations of Southeast Asia - 2007 -Page 131 "preferred to identify Sri Mara with Fan Shi-man of Funan (circa 230 C.E.). This view is indirectly supported by Filliozat (1968) and Jacques (1969, 123).</ref><ref>H. R. Chakrabartty ''Vietnam, Kampuchea, Laos, bound in comradeship: a panoramic study '' 1988 - Volume 2 - Page 423 "Maintaining his tempo of triumphs, Fan Shih-man, or Sri Mara, conquered most of Siam, central Burma and northern Malaya.5 According to Chinese sources, the Great King died in action while campaigning in Chin-lin, meaning 'Frontier of ."</ref><ref>Kelley Ross webpage "[http://www.friesian.com/perigoku.htm The Periphery of China -- Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Burma, Tibet, and Mongolia] {{Wayback|url=http://www.friesian.com/perigoku.htm |date=20090512162426 }}"</ref>

根據中國史料的記載，區連原為[[東漢|東漢]][[象林縣|象林縣]][[功曹|功曹]]。137年（[[永和_(漢順帝)|永和]]二年），區連率領[[占族|占族]]數千人起兵，攻打象林縣，殺死縣令。隨後佔領了整個[[日南郡|日南郡]]，自稱「林邑王」。交趾刺史[[樊演|樊演]]徵[[交趾郡|交趾郡]]、[[九真郡|九真郡]]的士兵一萬餘人前往征討。漢軍害怕遠征，發生嘩變，因此樊演兵敗。消息傳至[[雒陽|雒陽]]，[[漢順帝|漢順帝]]欲發[[荊州|荊]]、[[揚州|揚]]、[[兗州|兗]]、[[豫州|豫]]四州共四萬人兵力前往鎮壓，被大臣[[李固|李固]]勸止。

區連死後，林邑國王位傳數世，其後國王無嗣，立外甥[[范熊|范熊]]為王。
{{wikisource|後漢書/卷86}}

== 腳注 ==
{{reflist|3}}

{{start box}}
{{s-before|-}}
{{s-title|[[占城|占城國]]國王|137年—？}}
{{s-after|不詳}}
{{end box}}

{{占婆君主}}

[[Category:占婆王|Category:占婆王]]