{{refimprove|time=2018-03-16T14:02:31+00:00}}
{{Infobox person
| name = 羅伯特·亨利·瑟斯頓
| native_name = Robert Henry Thurston
| image = Robert Henry Thurston of Hoboken, N.J..jpg
| birth_date = {{Birth date|1839|10|25|mf=yes}}
| birth_place = 美國[[羅德島州|羅德島州]][[普罗维登斯_(罗德岛州)|普洛威頓斯]]
| death_date = {{Death date and age|1903|10|25|1839|10|25|mf=yes}}
| death_place = 美國[[紐約州|紐約州]][[伊萨卡_(纽约州)|綺色佳]]
}}

'''羅伯特·亨利·瑟斯頓'''（{{lang-en|Robert Henry Thurston}}；{{bd|1839年|10月25日|1903年|10月25日}}）是一名美國工程師。他是[[史蒂文斯理工學院|史蒂文斯理工學院]]第一位[[機械工程學|機械工程學]]教授。他曾於安納波利斯的[[美國海軍學院|美國海軍學院]]擔任助理教授。

==生平==

==貢獻==

==著作==
書籍（選錄）：
* 1878. ''A history of the growth of the steam engine''. D. Appleton and Company; 4th, revised ed. 1902 ([http://digital.library.cornell.edu/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=kmoddl;idno=kmod038 online])
* 1884. ''Stationary steam engines; especially as adapted to electric lighting purposes.'' New York, J. Wiley & sons, 1884.
* 1884. ''Materials of Engineering''. J. Wiley, 1884, Parts, [https://books.google.com/books?id=dFbVAAAAMAAJ 1], [https://books.google.com/books?id=EZdBAAAAIAAJ 2] & [https://books.google.com/books?id=klYuAQAAIAAJ 3]
* 1889. ''The development of the philosophy of the steam-engine. An historical sketch''. New York, J. Wiley & sons.
* 1890. ''Heat as a form of energy.'' Boston and New York, Houghton, Mifflin and company, 1890.
* 1891. ''A manual of the steam-engine. For engineers and technical schools; advanced courses.'' New York, J. Wiley & sons, 1891.
* 1894. ''The animal as a machine and a prime motor, and the laws of energetics. '' New York, J. Wiley & sons.

他的一些較為重要的文獻：<ref name = "JUC 1879"/> 
* 1865. ''On Losses of Propelling Power in the Paddle Wheel''
* 1865. ''Steam Engines of the French Navy''
* 1870. ''H. B. M. Iron Clad Monarch'' 
* 1870. ''Iron Manufactures in Great Britain'' 
* 1871. ''Experimental Steam Boiler Explosions''
* 1871. ''Report on Test Trials of Steam Boilers''
* 1872. ''Traction Engines and Road Locomotives''
* 1874. ''Efficiency of Furnaces Burning Wet Fuel''
* 1874. ''The Mechanical Engineer, his Preparation and his Work''
* 1877, ''On a New Method of Planning Researches and of Representing to the Eye the Results of Combination of three or more Elements in Varying Proportions''

==參考資料==
{{reflist}}

==延伸閱讀==
* ASME History and Heritage Committee (1980); ''Mechanical Engineers in America Born Prior to 1861: A Biographical Dictionary''. New York: ASME. Library of Congress No. 79-57364.
* Calvert, Monte A.  ''Mechanical Engineer in America, 1830-1910: Professional Cultures in Conflict''.  Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1967.
* Clark, Geoffrey W. (2000); ''History of Stevens Institute of Technology: A Record of Broad-Based Curricula and Technogenesis''. Jersey City, New Jersey: Jensen/Daniels.
* Sinclair, Bruce (1980);  ''A Centennial History of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1880-1980''. (Toronto: Published for ASME by University of Toronto Press, 1980). {{ISBN|0-8020-2380-0}}.
* Durand, William F. (1929): "Robert Henry Thurston" The Riverside Press Cambridge, Massachusetts 1929 Copyright by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers A.S.M.E. First Edition.

==外部連結==
* {{commons category-inline}}
* {{wikisource author-inline}}
* {{Wikiquote-inline}}
* {{Gutenberg author | id=Thurston,+Robert+H.}}
* {{Internet Archive author |sname=Robert Henry Thurston}}

{{Authority control}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Thurston, Robert Henry}}
[[Category:美國機械工程師|Category:美國機械工程師]]
[[Category:康乃爾大學教師|Category:康乃爾大學教師]]