{{Infobox company
| name   = 皇家阿霍德<br>Koninklijke Ahold N.V.
| logo   = 
| image          = Albert Heijn Headquarters by Niels Kim.jpg
| image_alt      = Ahold headquarters, Zaandam
| image_caption  = 皇家阿霍德在赞丹的总部
| type   = [[上市公司|上市公司]] 
| traded_as      = 
| foundation     = {{start date and age|1887}}
| location       = {{NLD}}[[赞丹|赞丹]]
| locations      = 3,206
| key_people     = Dick Boer <small>(首席运营官)</small><br>Jan Hommen <small>(董事会主席)</small>
| industry       = [[零售业|零售业]]  
| services       = 超市、折扣店、药店、在线零售等  	 
| revenue        = [[Euro|€]]382亿 (2015)
| operating_income = €12.5亿 (2015)
| net_income     = €5.9亿 (2014)
| assets         = €141.4亿 (2014)
| equity         = €48.4亿 (2014)
| num_employees  = 227,000 (2014)
| homepage       = {{URL|http://www.ahold.com/}}
| intl           = yes
}}

'''皇家阿霍德'''（Koninklijke Ahold N.V.）是一家总部位于[[荷兰|荷兰]][[赞丹|赞丹]]的国际性零售集团公司，也是一家在[[泛欧交易所|泛欧交易所]]上市的公司。公司创建于1887年，伴随着第一家 [[Albert_Heijn|Albert Heijn]] 杂货铺开张而正式营业，在20世纪的前半叶迅速扩张，并于1948年成功上市。旗下的 [[Albert_Heijn|Albert Heijn]] 是荷兰最大的本土大型连锁超市，在[[比利时|比利时]]、[[德国|德国]]、[[阿鲁巴|阿鲁巴]]和[[库拉索|库拉索]]也有分店。在1973年，公司更名为现在的名称，缩写来源于 Albert Heijn holdings。

2016年7月23日皇家阿霍德與比利時 Louis Delhaize Group（路易斯德尔海兹集团）正式合併為[[皇家阿霍德德尔海兹集团|皇家阿霍德德尔海兹集团]]，新公司在全球11個國家擁有6500間雜貨店和專賣店，22個不同的超市品牌和37.5萬名員工，成为美国和欧洲地区乃至世界最大的食品零售商之一。

==公司资产==

===欧洲市场===
*Ahold Coffee Company B.V. – ''(Netherlands)''
*Ahold Czech Republic a.s. – ''(Czech Republic)''
*Albert Heijn|Albert Heijn B.V. – ''(Netherlands/Belgium/Germany)''
*Etos|Etos B.V. – ''(Netherlands)''
*Gall & Gall B.V. – ''(Netherlands)''
*Bol.com – ''(Netherlands)''
*Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS. S.A. ([[Jerónimo_Martins|JMR]]) (indirectly 49%) – ''(Portugal)''

'''曾经拥有'''
*Jerónimo Martins - ''(Portugal)''
*DinoSol- ''(Spain)''

===北美市场===
* Giant-Carlisle
** Martin's Food Markets
** Ukrops
* Stop & Shop/Giant-Landover
** Stop & Shop
** Giant-Landover
* Peapod

'''曾经拥有'''
*BI-LO (United States)|BI-LO]
*Bruno's
*Tops Friendly Markets|Tops
*Ahold had a minority interest in ''La Fragua'' that operates supermarkets in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador
Ahold also formerly owned the Edwards chain of stores but changed most of the stores under that banner to Stop & Shop in 2000.

===南美市场===
'''曾经拥有'''
*Bompreco, Ahold's joined venture in Brazil, operated several Brazilian supermarket chains. 
*Santa Isabel (supermarkets)|Santa Isabel, Ahold's joint venture in Chile, Peru, Paraguay and Ecuador from 1999 to 2003
*Ahold owned Disco, which operates supermarkets in Argentina, but afterwards it was sold to the Local Market.

==皇家阿霍德大股东==

大股东主要有:<ref>[https://www.ahold.com/web/file?uuid=898bf647-2994-4744-9312-115b85fed07d&owner=f6216a8f-4a2d-494f-8168-ae6cd1765756&contentid=2282 "Annual Report 2013"] {{Wayback|url=https://www.ahold.com/web/file?uuid=898bf647-2994-4744-9312-115b85fed07d&owner=f6216a8f-4a2d-494f-8168-ae6cd1765756&contentid=2282 |date=20150112123838 }}. Koninklijke Ahold N.V. Retrieved 12 January 2015.</ref>
* Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente Financieringsaandelen Ahold ''(持股比重: 20.19%; 投票比重: 6.55%)''
* Mondrian Investment Partners Limited ''(持股比重: 4.26%; 投票比重: 4.99%)''
* ING Groep N.V ''(持股比重: 9.26%; 投票比重: 4.92%)''
* Blackrock, Inc ''(持股比重: 2.99%; 投票比重: 4.46%)''
* Deutsche Bank AG ''(持股比重: 3.63%; 投票比重: 4.26%)''
* DeltaFort Beleggingen B.V. ''(持股比重: 11.23%; 投票比重: 3.82%)''
* Silchester International Investors LLP ''(持股比重: 3.00%; 投票比重: 3.52%)''

==关键人物 <ref>{{Cite web|title = Executive Committee and Management Board|url = https://www.ahold.com/Corporate-governance/Executive-Committee-and-Management-Board/#!/Corporate-governance/Executive-Committee-and-Management-Board.htm|website = www.ahold.com|access-date = 10 February 2016|last = Ahold}}</ref>==
{{div col|colwidth=50em}}
*Dick Boer (31 August 1957), 2011年3月出任公司首席执行官. 
*Jeff Carr (17 September 1961), 2011年11月出任公司首席财务官.
*Hanneke Faber (19 April 1969), 2013年9月出任公司首席商务官.
*James McCann (4 October 1969), 2013年2月出任公司首席运营官.
*Wouter Kolk (26 April 1966) 2015年2月出任荷兰分部首席运营官.
*Jan Ernst de Groot (11 April 1963), 2015年出任公司首席法务官.
*Abbe Luersman (4 December 1967),公司首席人力资源官.
{{div col end}}

==參考資料==
{{Reflist}}

== 外部链接 ==
*[http://stock.qq.com/a/20150624/060376.htm 阿霍德与德尔海兹达成290亿美元合并协议] {{Wayback|url=http://stock.qq.com/a/20150624/060376.htm |date=20160812200248 }}
*[http://www.people.com.cn/GB/jinji/33/172/20030226/931007.html 荷兰阿霍德虚报利润5亿美元 CEO、CFO辞职] {{Wayback|url=http://www.people.com.cn/GB/jinji/33/172/20030226/931007.html |date=20160531230529 }}
*[http://www.people.com.cn/BIG5/guoji/24/20030303/934438.html 過度擴張泡沫破──阿霍德假賬案震驚歐洲] {{Wayback|url=http://www.people.com.cn/BIG5/guoji/24/20030303/934438.html |date=20040824155308 }}

{{AEX companies}}

{{Authority control}}
[[Category:泛欧证券交易所上市公司|Category:泛欧证券交易所上市公司]]
[[Category:荷兰零售商|Category:荷兰零售商]]
[[Category:荷兰品牌|Category:荷兰品牌]]
[[Category:1887年成立的公司|Category:1887年成立的公司]]
[[Category:总部在荷兰的跨国公司|Category:总部在荷兰的跨国公司]]
[[Category:2016年併購|Category:2016年併購]]