{{Infobox symptom
|  Image          = OuchFlintGoodrichShot1941.jpg
|  Caption        = 一位婦女在抽血時表情痛苦
|  Field          = [[神經內科|神經內科]]
|  ICD10          = {{ICD10|R|52}}
|  ICD9           = {{ICD9|338}}
|  MedlinePlus    = 002164
|  DiseasesDB     = 9503
|  MeshID         = D010146
}}

身體的'''疼痛'''（pain）指通常由身體損傷、病患或不良的外部刺激所引起的不舒服感覺。出於臨床研究的需要，國際疼痛研究{{tsl|en|International Association for the Study of Pain|國際疼痛研究協會}}將疼痛定義為「由真正存在或潛在的[[身體組織|身體組織]]損傷所引起的不舒服[[知覺|知覺]]和心理感覺」。<ref>This often quoted definition was first published in 1979 by IASP in ''Pain'' journal, number 6, page 250. It is derived from a definition of pain given earlier by Harold Merskey: "An unpleasant experience that we primarily associate with tissue damage or describe in terms of tissue damage or both." Merskey, H. (1964), ''An Investigation of Pain in Psychological Illness'', DM Thesis, Oxford.</ref><ref name="IASPterms">See [http://www.iasp-pain.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=General_Resource_Links&Template=/CM/HTMLDisplay.cfm&ContentID=3058 IASP Pain Terminology] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080512061229/http://www.iasp-pain.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=General_Resource_Links&Template=%2FCM%2FHTMLDisplay.cfm&ContentID=3058 |date=2008-05-12 }}. The whole entry on the term pain itself reads like this:
<blockquote>
Pain. An unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage, or described in terms of such damage. Note: The inability to communicate verbally does not negate the possibility that an individual is experiencing pain and is in need of appropriate pain-relieving treatment. Pain is always subjective. Each individual learns the application of the word through experiences related to injury in early life. Biologists recognize that those stimuli which cause pain are liable to damage tissue. Accordingly, pain is that experience we associate with actual or potential tissue damage. It is unquestionably a sensation in a part or parts of the body, but it is also always unpleasant and therefore also an emotional experience. Experiences which resemble pain but are not unpleasant, e.g., pricking, should not be called pain. Unpleasant abnormal experiences (dysesthesias) may also be pain but are not necessarily so because, subjectively, they may not have the usual sensory qualities of pain. Many people report pain in the absence of tissue damage or any likely pathophysiological cause; usually this happens for psychological reasons. There is usually no way to distinguish their experience from that due to tissue damage if we take the subjective report. If they regard their experience as pain and if they report it in the same ways as pain caused by tissue damage, it should be accepted as pain. This definition avoids tying pain to the stimulus. Activity induced in the nociceptor and nociceptive pathways by a noxious stimulus is not pain, which is always a psychological state, even though we may well appreciate that pain most often has a proximate physical cause.
</blockquote>
</ref>

疼痛是主觀的感覺，早於1968年疼痛處理專家{{link-en|马戈·麦加费利|Margo McCaffery}}首次提出一個在護理學界普遍使用的定義：「一個人說感到痛，這就是痛；他說痛仍在，痛就仍在。」（原文：Pain is whatever the experiencing person says it is, existing whenever he says it does.）<ref>McCaffery M. ''Nursing practice theories related to cognition, bodily pain, and man-environment interactions''. LosAngeles: UCLA Students Store. 1968.</ref><ref>More recently, McCaffery defined pain as "whatever the experiencing person says it is, existing whenever the experiencing person says it does.” {{cite book |author=Pasero, Chris; McCaffery, Margo |title=Pain: clinical manual |publisher=Mosby |location=St. Louis |year=1999 |pages= |isbn=0-8151-5609-X |oclc= |doi= |accessdate=}}.</ref>

身體疼痛是看醫生的主要原因；在美國，有一半看醫生的人是因為疼痛，是最普遍的原因。<ref>[http://www.npecweb.org/aboutnpec.asp?id=22&selMenu=2,8 National Pain Education Council] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080613224535/http://www.npecweb.org/aboutnpec.asp?id=22&selMenu=2,8 |date=2008-06-13 }}</ref>疼痛也是大部分病患的徵狀，可根據維持時間、強度、種類（如火燒、針刺感等）、位置等來診斷。通常疼痛會自然消退，或通過簡單的止痛處理後消退，這可稱作「急性」疼痛。但有時疼痛本身已是一種病患，如[[慢性疼痛|慢性疼痛]]。近年痛症引起了不同學科專家的關注，如[[藥理學|藥理學]]、[[神經生物學|神經生物學]]、[[護理學|護理學]]、[[物理治療|物理治療]]和[[心理學|心理學]]，並形成了[[疼痛管理|疼痛管理]]這門在[[麻醉學|麻醉學]]、物理治療、[[神經學|神經學]]、[[精神科|精神科]]等專科之下的附屬專科<ref>From the [http://www.abms.org/Who_We_Help/Consumers/About_Physician_Specialties/physical.aspx American Board of Medical Specialties] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080516091310/http://www.abms.org/Who_We_Help/Consumers/About_Physician_Specialties/physical.aspx |date=2008-05-16 }} website: "Pain Medicine is the medical discipline concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of the entire range of painful disorders. (...) Due to the vast scope of the field, Pain Medicine is a multidisciplinary subspecialty (...)."</ref>。

人體的痛覺神經有六種，但科學上紀錄有人無法感受痛楚，這種病是[[先天性痛覺不敏感合併無汗症|先天性无痛症]]，英文簡稱為“CIP”。

==用語區分==
疼痛指身體的疼痛，是主觀、有意識的感覺。而[[痛覺|痛覺]]則指[[感受器|感受器]]、[[周圍神經系統|周圍神經系統]]、[[脊髓|脊髓]]和[[腦|腦]]受有害刺激而引起的[[無意識|無意識]]活動<ref name="nociIASP">"Activity induced in the nociceptor and nociceptive pathways by a noxious stimulus is not pain, which is always a psychological state, even though we may well appreciate that pain most often has a proximate physical cause." Source: [http://www.iasp-pain.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=General_Resource_Links&Template=/CM/HTMLDisplay.cfm&ContentID=3058 IASP Pain Terminology] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080512061229/http://www.iasp-pain.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=General_Resource_Links&Template=%2FCM%2FHTMLDisplay.cfm&ContentID=3058 |date=2008-05-12 }}.</ref>。

==分類==
{{tsl|en|nociceptor|痛觉感受器}}受到化學、熱力或撞擊等可損傷身體組織的刺激就可能會產生疼痛。若神經系統由病患或損傷而受損，可引致神經痛症或[[神經性病變|神經性病變]]痛症<ref>Compare definitions at [http://www.iasp-pain.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=General_Resource_Links&Template=/CM/HTMLDisplay.cfm&ContentID=3058 IASP Pain Terminology] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080512061229/http://www.iasp-pain.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=General_Resource_Links&Template=%2FCM%2FHTMLDisplay.cfm&ContentID=3058 |date=2008-05-12 }}: "Neurophathic pain — Pain initiated or caused by a primary lesion or dysfunction in the nervous system." and "Neurogenic pain — Pain initiated or caused by a primary lesion, dysfunction, or transitory perturbation in the peripheral or central nervous system."</ref>。由[[感受器|感受器]]受刺激和神經系統受損引起的疼痛是兩大主要疼痛，第三類是{{tsl|en|Psychalgia|精神性疼痛}}，較為罕見。

痛觉感受器引起的疼痛可細分為三類：<ref>[http://paineraserindia.com/doctors/pain-articles/PhysiologyOfPain.jsp Pain Physiology] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20080401030947/http://www.paineraserindia.com/doctors/pain-articles/PhysiologyOfPain.jsp |date=2008-04-01 }}</ref>

#-{表}-面[[軀體神經系統|軀體]]疼痛（或[[皮膚|皮膚]]疼痛）由皮膚或身體表面組織受損而引起。由於皮膚痛觉感受器分布細密，所以其產生的痛覺明顯、位置明確但短暫。小[[傷口|傷口]]和輕度[[燒傷|燒傷]]引起的疼痛屬此類。
#深層軀體疼痛源自[[韌帶|韌帶]]、[[腱|腱]]、[[骨|骨]]、[[血管|血管]]或[[肌肉|肌肉]]，由軀體痛觉感受器感應，其分布較疏，引起隱隱作痛的感覺，位置亦不明顯。[[扭傷|扭傷]]、[[斷骨|斷骨]]和[[肌膜疼痛症候群|肌膜疼痛症候群]]屬此類。
#[[內臟|內臟]]疼痛源自身體的[[器官|器官]]。內臟痛觉感受器的分布更疏，產生的痛感更強和更長時間，更能檢查出引起痛覺的地方。

==疼痛与疾病==
疼痛是许多疾病的常见或主要症状，如[[脑肿瘤|脑肿瘤]]的[[头痛|头痛]]、[[冠心病|冠心病]]发作时的[[胸痛|胸痛]]，[[胆石症|胆石症]]的[[胆绞痛|胆绞痛]]和[[腹痛|腹痛]]、[[癌症分期|晚期癌症]]患者的[[癌痛|癌性疼痛]]等。有些疼痛本身就是一种疾病，如[[帶狀皰疹|帶狀皰疹]]的[[神经痛|神经痛]]、[[三叉神经痛|三叉神经痛]]。疼痛不仅给患者带来痛苦，而且还对人体[[中樞神經|中樞神經]]、循环、呼吸、内分泌、消化和[[自主神經|自主神經]]等系统造成不良影响，甚至是某些严重的、威胁生命的疾病症状。<ref> {{Cite book | author = 王惠霞 | title = 麻醉与疼痛 | publisher = 世界图书出版广东有限公司 | pages = 2 | ISBN = 978-7-5100-4566-0 | accessdate = 2017-06-28 | language = 中文  }} </ref>

==參見==
*[[疼痛管理|疼痛管理]]
*[[疼痛治療不足|疼痛治療不足]]
*[[兒童疼痛管理|兒童疼痛管理]]

==註釋和參考==
{{reflist|2}}

==外部連結==
{{Commons cat}}
{{Wikiquote}}
*[https://web.archive.org/web/20180708021844/http://somapain.com/ 梭玛疼痛医学知识]
* {{DMOZ|/Health/Senses/Touch_and_Sensation/Pain}}
* [http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/pain/ Pain] {{Wayback|url=http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/pain/ |date=20180426124504 }} Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy

{{感觉系统}}
{{躯体感觉系统}}
{{Pain}}

{{Authority control}}
[[Category:疼痛|*]]
[[Category:知覺|Category:知覺]]
[[Category:痛苦|Category:痛苦]]