{{Medical}}
{{Infobox Disease
 | Name           = 腎源性尿崩症<br>{{small|(Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus)}}
 | Image          =
 | Caption        =
 | DiseasesDB     =
 | ICD10          = {{ICD10|N|25|1|n|25}}
 | ICD9           = {{ICD9|588.1}}
 | ICDO           =
 | OMIM           = 304800
 | OMIM_mult      = {{OMIM2|125800}}
 | MedlinePlus    = 000511
 | eMedicineSubj  =
 | eMedicineTopic =
 | MeshID         = D018500
 | GeneReviewsNBK  = NBK1177
 | GeneReviewsName = Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus
}}

'''腎源性尿崩症'''（{{lang|en|Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus}} (NDI)）主要是源於[[腎|腎]]臟病理的一種[[尿崩症|尿崩症]]。這是相對於中央/[[神經性尿崩症|神經性尿崩症]]（neurogenic diabetes insipidus），神經性尿崩症是由[[抗利尿激素|抗利尿激素]]（ADH）/[[抗利尿激素|精氨酸抗利尿激素]]（AVP）水平不足所造成。腎源性尿崩症是由腎臟{{lang|en|ADH}}的不當反應所造成，從而導致腎在除去"游離水"（free water）以形成濃縮尿液的能力降低。

== 詞源 ==
本病名字來自：
<!--*Diabetes -  from L. diabetes, from Gk. diabetes "excessive discharge of urine," lit. "a passer-through, siphon," from diabainein "to pass through," from dia- "through" + bainein "to go"
*Insipidus - "without taste or perceptible flavor," from Fr. insipide, from L.L. inspidus "tasteless," from L. in- "not" + sapidus "tasty," from sapere "have a taste"

This is because patients experience polyuria (an excretion of over 2.5 liters of urine per day), and that the urine content does not have an elevated glucose concentration, as opposed to diabetes mellitus.

Although they shared a name, [[diabetes_mellitus|diabetes mellitus]] and diabetes insipidus are two entirely separate conditions with a separate pathogenesis. Both cause polyuria (hence the similarity in name) but whereas diabetes insipidus is a problem with the production of antidiuretic hormone (Cranial diabetes insipidus) or renal response to antidiuretic hormone (nephrogenic diabetes insipidus), diabetes mellitus causes polyuria via osmotic diuresis, due to the high blood sugar leaking into the urine, taking excess water along with it.-->

==病因==
{{seealso|腎功能|腎生理學}}
===後天性===
腎原性的DI(NDI)是最常見的在其後天性的形式，這意味著該缺陷不是在出生時就有的。<!--These acquired forms have numerous potential causes.  The most obvious cause is a kidney or systemic disorder, including [[amyloidosis|amyloidosis]],<ref name="4typneph">{{Cite document  | last = Wildin  | first = Robert  | title = What is NDI?  | publisher = The Diabetes Inspidus Foundation  | year = 2006}} http://www.diabetesinsipidus.org/4_types_nephrogenic_di.htm {{Wayback|url=http://www.diabetesinsipidus.org/4_types_nephrogenic_di.htm |date=20090401234459 }}</ref> [[polycystic_kidney_disease|polycystic kidney disease]],<ref name="NIHpub">http://kidney.niddk.nih.gov/kudiseases/pubs/insipidus/index.htm</ref> electrolyte imbalance,<ref name="pmid8621781">{{cite journal |author=Marples D, Frøkiaer J, Dørup J, Knepper MA, Nielsen S |title=Hypokalemia-induced downregulation of aquaporin-2 water channel expression in rat kidney medulla and cortex |journal=J. Clin. Invest. |volume=97 |issue=8 |pages=1960–8 |date=April 1996 |pmid=8621781 |pmc=507266 |doi=10.1172/JCI118628 |url=}}</ref><ref name="pmid185584">{{cite journal |author=Carney S, Rayson B, Morgan T |title=A study in vitro of the concentrating defect associated with hypokalaemia and hypercalcaemia |journal=Pflugers Arch. |volume=366 |issue=1 |pages=11–7 |date=October 1976 |pmid=185584 |doi= 10.1007/BF02486556|url=}}</ref> or some other kidney defect.<ref name="4typneph"/>

The major causes of acquired NDI that produce clinical symptoms (e.g. polyuria) in the adult are [[lithium_(medication)|lithium]] toxicity and [[hypercalcemia|hypercalcemia]].

Chronic lithium ingestion - appears to affect the tubules by entering the collecting tubule cells through sodium channels, accumulating and interfering with the normal response to ADH (ADH Resistance) in a mechanism that is not yet fully understood.

[[Hypercalcemia|Hypercalcemia]] causes natriuresis (increased sodium loss in the urine) and water diuresis, in part by its effect through the [[calcium-sensing_receptor|calcium-sensing receptor]] ([[CaSR|CaSR]]).

;Osmotic
Other causes of acquired NDI include: hypokalemia, post-obstructive polyuria, sickle cell disease/trait, amyloidosis, Sjogren syndrome, renal cystic disease, Bartter syndrome and various drugs (Amphotericin B, Orlistat, Ifosfomide, Ofloxacin, Cidofovir, Vaptanes).

In addition to kidney and systemic disorders, nephrogenic DI can present itself as a side-effect to some [[medication|medication]]s.  The most common and well known of these drugs is [[lithium_pharmacology|lithium]],<ref name="pmid2989335">{{cite journal |author=Christensen S, Kusano E, Yusufi AN, Murayama N, Dousa TP |title=Pathogenesis of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus due to chronic administration of lithium in rats |journal=J. Clin. Invest. |volume=75 |issue=6 |pages=1869–79 |date=June 1985 |pmid=2989335 |pmc=425543 |doi=10.1172/JCI111901 |url=}}</ref> although there are numerous other medications that cause this effect with lesser frequency.<ref name="4typneph"/>-->

===遺傳===
這種形式的DI也可以是遺傳形式：
<!--
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Type
! [[OMIM|OMIM]]
! Gene
! Locus
|-
| NDI1
| {{OMIM2|304800}}
| ''[[AVPR2|AVPR2]]''
| Usually, the hereditary form of nephrogenic DI is the result of an X-linked genetic defect which causes the [[vasopressin_receptor|vasopressin receptor]] (also called the V2 receptor) in the kidney to not function correctly.<ref name="4typneph"/><ref>{{OMIM|304800|DIABETES INSIPIDUS, NEPHROGENIC, X-LINKED}}</ref>
|-
| NDI2
| {{OMIM2|125800}}
| ''[[AQP2|AQP2]]''
| In more rare cases, a mutation in the "[[aquaporin_2|aquaporin 2]]" gene impede the normal functionality of the kidney water channel, which results in the kidney being unable to absorb water. This mutation is often inherited in an autosomal recessive manner although dominant mutations are reported from time to time <ref name="4typneph"/><ref>{{OMIM|125800|DIABETES INSIPIDUS, NEPHROGENIC, AUTOSOMAL}}</ref>
|}-->

==病症描述==<!--
The clinical manifestation is similar to [[neurogenic_diabetes_insipidus|neurogenic diabetes insipidus]], presenting with excessive thirst and excretion of a large amount of dilute urine. Dehydration is common, and incontinence can occur secondary to chronic bladder distension.<ref name="Patient UK">{{cite web| last = Kavanagh| first = Sean | title = Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus| publisher = Patient UK| date = 20 Jun 2007| url = http://www.patient.co.uk/showdoc/40001780/| accessdate = 22 Jun 2009}}</ref> On investigation, there will be an increased plasma osmolarity and decreased urine osmolarity. As pituitary function is normal, ADH levels are likely to be a normal or raised. Polyuria will continue as long as the patient is able to drink. If the patient is unable to drink and is still unable to concentrate the urine, then [[hypernatremia|hypernatremia]] will ensue with its neurologic symptoms.{{Citation needed|date=August 2012}}

==診斷==
Differential diagnosis includes nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, neurogenic/central diabetes insipidus and psychogenic polydipsia. They may be differentiated by using the water deprivation test.
Recently, lab assays for ADH are available and can aid in diagnosis.

If able to rehydrate properly, sodium concentration should be nearer to the maximum of the normal range. This, however, is not a diagnostic finding, as it depends on patient hydration.

[[Desmopressin|DDAVP]] can also be used; if the patient is able to concentrate urine following administration of DDAVP, then the cause of the diabetes insipidus is neurogenic; if no response occurs to DDAVP administration, then the cause is likely to be nephrogenic.-->

==治療==<!--
Persons with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus will need to consume enough fluids to equal the amount of urine produced. Correct any underlying cause such as hypercalcemia. The first line of treatment is [[hydrochlorothiazide|hydrochlorothiazide]] and [[amiloride|amiloride]].<ref name="pmid10332005">{{cite journal |author=Kirchlechner V, Koller DY, Seidl R, Waldhauser F |title=Treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus with hydrochlorothiazide and amiloride |journal=Arch. Dis. Child. |volume=80 |issue=6 |pages=548–52 |date=June 1999 |pmid=10332005 |pmc=1717946 |doi= 10.1136/adc.80.6.548|url=http://adc.bmj.com/cgi/pmidlookup?view=long&pmid=10332005}}</ref> Consider a low-salt and low-protein diet.

Thiazide is used in treatment because diabetes insipidus causes the excretion of more water than sodium (i.e. dilute urine). This condition results in a high serum osmolarity (all the retained solutes stay in the serum). This high serum osmolarity stimulates [[polydipsia|polydipsia]] in an attempt to dilute the serum back to normal and provide free water for excreting the excess serum solutes. However, since the patient is unable to concentrate urine to excrete the excess solutes, the resulting urine fails to decrease serum osmolarity and the cycle repeats itself, hence [[polyuria|polyuria]]. Thiazide diuretics allow increased excretion of Na+ and water, thereby reducing the serum osmolarity and eliminating volume excess. Basically, Thiazides allow increased solute excretion in the urine, breaking the Polydipsia-Polyuria cycle.-->

==註釋==
{{reflist|2}}

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
*Kavanagh, Sean (20 Jun 2007). "Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus". Patient UK. Retrieved 22 Jun 2009.
*Kirchlechner V, Koller DY, Seidl R, Waldhauser F (June 1999). "Treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus with hydrochlorothiazide and amiloride". Arch. Dis. Child. 80 (6): 548–52. doi:10.1136/adc.80.6.548. PMC 1717946. PMID 10332005.
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
{{Medical resources
|  DiseasesDB     = 
|  ICD10          = {{ICD10|N|25|1|n|25}} 
|  ICD9           = {{ICD9|588.1}} 
|  ICDO           = 
|  OMIM           = 304800 
|  OMIM_mult      = {{OMIM2|125800}} 
|  MedlinePlus    = 000511 
|  eMedicineSubj  = 
|  eMedicineTopic = 
|  MeshID         = D018500 
|  GeneReviewsNBK  = NBK1177 
|  GeneReviewsName = Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus
}}
*[https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/nephrogenic-diabetes-insipidus/ Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus] {{Wayback|url=https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/nephrogenic-diabetes-insipidus/ |date=20170219084854 }}
*[https://www.msdmanuals.com/home/kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/disorders-of-kidney-tubules/nephrogenic-diabetes-insipidus Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus - Kidney and Urinary Tract Disorders]
*[https://www.msdmanuals.com/professional/genitourinary-disorders/renal-transport-abnormalities/nephrogenic-diabetes-insipidus Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus - Genitourinary Disorders]

{{Nephrology}}
{{X连锁遗传病}}
{{Channelopathy}}
{{Cell surface receptor deficiencies}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus}}
[[Category:肾脏疾病|Category:肾脏疾病]]
[[Category:罕見疾病|Category:罕見疾病]]