{{Medical}}
{{Infobox disease
| Name           = 腎血管性高血壓<br>({{lang|en|Renovascular hypertension}})
| Image          =
| Caption        =
| DiseasesDB     =
| ICD10          = {{ICD10|I|15|0|i|10}}
| ICD9           = {{ICD9|403}}
| ICDO           =
| OMIM           =
| MedlinePlus    = 000204
| eMedicineSubj  = med
| eMedicineTopic = 2006
| MeshID         = D006978
}}

'''腎血管性高血壓'''({{lang|en|Renovascular hypertension}}、"腎性[[高血壓|高血壓]]"(renal hypertension))是一種綜合徵、由腎臟荷爾蒙反應將[[腎動脈|動脈供應腎臟]](Renal artery)變窄([[肾动脉狭窄|肾动脉狭窄]])所引起的高血壓。當功能正常時，此荷爾蒙軸調節血壓。由於低局部血流，腎誤導增加了整個循環系統的血壓。這是[[繼發性高血壓|繼發性高血壓]](secondary hypertension)的一種形式−高血壓的一種形式、其原因是可識別的。

==病因==
{{seealso|腎功能|腎生理學}}

供應腎臟的動脈變窄導致其由"近腎小球裝置"檢測到"低灌注壓"(通過腎小球旁細胞，而其充當壓力感受器；位於所述"入球小動脈壁")。如此導致分泌腎素引起"[[血管紧张素|血管紧张素]]原"轉化為"血管緊張素I"。"血管緊張素I"然後進行到肺、在那裡通過血管緊張素II轉化酶(ACE)轉化為血管緊張素II。"血管緊張素II"引起的血管收縮及[[醛固酮|醛固酮]]釋放導致水與鈉瀦留及鉀耗竭。增加的血液量及血管收縮有助於血壓上升從而導致高血壓。

==診斷及描述==
技術已經發展到診斷腎性高血壓使用[[X線攝影術|X線攝影術]](Radiography)的[[數字圖像處理|數字圖像處理]](Digital image processing)。<!--Treatment may involve [[angioplasty|angioplasty]] and [[stent|stent]]ing of the renal arteries. The syndrome may be related to other diseases of the [[epithelium|epithelium]].

Suggestive clinical features include onset of hypertension <30 or >50 years of age, abdominal or femoral [[bruits|bruits]], hypokalemic alkalosis, moderate to severe retinopathy, acute onset of hypertension or [[malignant_hypertension|malignant hypertension]], and hypertension resistant to medical therapy.

The "gold standard" in diagnosis of renal artery stenosis is conventional arteriography. [[Magnetic_resonance_angiography|Magnetic resonance angiography]] (MRA) is used in many centers, especially among patients with renal insufficiency at higher risk for contrast nephropathy. MRA may overestimate the severity of stenosis relative to angiography. In patients with normal renal function and hypertension, the captopril (or enalaprilat) renogram may be used. Lateralization of renal function [accentuation of the difference between affected and unaffected (or "less affected") sides] is suggestive of significant vascular disease. Test results may be falsely negative in the presence of bilateral disease.-->

==治療==
腎臟低灌注激活腎素-血管緊張素-醛固酮([[肾素-血管紧张素系统|RAAs]])軸；[[血管紧张肽I转化酶抑制剂|ACE抑製劑]]及[[血管紧张素II受体拮抗剂|血管紧张素II受体拮抗剂]]類被禁止，因為它們可能會損害腎功能特別是如果如果是雙側都是狹窄。<!--[[Nitroprusside|Nitroprusside]], [[labetalol|labetalol]], or [[calcium_antagonist|calcium antagonist]]s are generally effective in lowering blood pressure acutely, although inhibitors of the RAA axis [e.g., ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs)] are most effective long-term treatment, if disease is not bilateral.

Surgical revascularization appears to be superior for ostial lesions characteristic of [[atherosclerosis|atherosclerosis]]. The relative efficacy of surgery compared with angioplasty (especially with stenting) for fibromuscular dysplasia or for non-occlusive, non-ostial atherosclerotic disease is unclear. Angioplasty (with or without stenting) tends to be temporarily effective for some cases. However, as of early 2011, six randomized controlled trials have failed to demonstrate any real benefit in blood pressure control or preservation of renal function when using endovascular (angioplasty or stenting) procedures compared to medical therapy alone. 
ACE inhibitors or ARBs are ideal agents for hypertension associated with renal artery stenosis, except in patients with bilateral disease (see "Ischemic Nephropathy" below) or disease in a solitary kidney (including an allograft).-->

==參見==
* [[高血壓性腎病|高血壓性腎病]]
* [[肾动脉狭窄|肾动脉狭窄]]
* [[腎功能衰竭|腎功能衰竭]]
* [[纖維肌性發育不良|纖維肌性發育不良]](Fibromuscular dysplasia)

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin}}
* Harrison's Manual of Medicine: Renovascular Disease - Renal Artery Stenosis
*[http://www.emedicine.com Diseases & Conditions - Medscape Reference] {{Wayback|url=http://www.emedicine.com/ |date=20080115230113 }}, 2014 by WebMD LLC.
{{refend}}

==外部連結==
* [http://www.hmc.psu.edu/healthinfo/r/renovascularhypertension.htm PSU]

{{Vascular diseases}}
{{Urologic disease}}

[[Category:肾脏学|Category:肾脏学]]
[[Category:高血压|Category:高血压]]