{{Infobox writer
|name           = 提贝里亚努斯
|image          = Pervigilium Veneris codex S page 1.png
|caption        = 有关提贝里亚努斯的文物
|birthdate     = 
|birthplace    = 
|deathdate     = 
|deathplace    = 
|occupation     = 诗人
|spouse         =
|parents        =
|children       =
|genre          = [[诗歌|诗歌]]
|notableworks   =  
}}      
'''提贝里亚努斯'''（{{lang-en|Tiberianus}}），约活动于公元4[[世纪|世纪]]前后。[[古罗马|古罗马]][[诗人|诗人]]之一。<ref>Adkins,Lesley Adkins,Roy A.（1998）. ''Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome''.Oxford University Press,USA.ISBN 9780195123326.</ref>著有[[哲学|哲学]]对话录，现已失传，还著有四首短诗，流传至今。<ref>Levi 1997: ''Horance''</ref>

== 参考 ==
{{reflist}}

==扩展阅读==
*''[[Editio_princeps|Editio princeps]]'' (1577)
Modern editions by 
*[[Franz_Bücheler|Franz Bücheler]] (1859)
*[[Alexander_Riese|Alexander Riese]], in ''Anthologia Latina'' (1869)
*[[E._Bahrens|E. Bahrens]] in ''Unedierte lateinische Gedichte'' (1877)
*[[S._G._Owen|S. G. Owen]] (with [[Catullus|Catullus]]) (1893)
*[[D._R._Shackleton_Bailey|D. R. Shackleton Bailey]] in volume six of the Loeb classical library: ''Gaius Valerius Catullus, Tibullus and [Tiberianus] Pervigilium veneris'', G. P. Goold, editor, translated by Francis Warre Cornish, John Percival Postgate, John William Mackail, second edition, revised (Harvard University Press, 1988)
*Andrea Cucchiarelli. ''La veglia di Venere. Pervigilium Veneris'' in BUR ''Classici Greci e Latini''. Biblioteca Universale (Milano: Rizzoli, 2003)  ISBN 88-17-10635-6.  Paperback. With notes and facing translation in Italian.  This new edition, with Latin text based largely on Shackelton Bailey, includes a brief anthology of commentary – from Voltaire to contemporary criticism (pp. 51–60) and an up-to-date bibliography (pp. 61–72). There is also an appendix (pp. 155–65) of texts and Italian translations of some of the most famous poems of late antiquity devoted to the theme of the rose – many from the so-called ''Latin Anthology'', a collection of poems from the imperial age thought to have been assembled at Carthage "during the cultural renaissance of Vandalic Africa in the 5th century CE.  This appendix highlights the vitality of the rose [[Literary_topos|topos]] and of the symbolism associated with it, which spread from the ancient world into European literature of all ages, and it offers the reader a welcome opportunity for reading and appreciating, this time in an Italian translation, a series of poems scarcely studied or known
*{{1911}}

{{古罗马}}

[[Category:古罗马|Category:古罗马]]