{{onesource|time=2015-05-08T01:02:36+00:00}}
{{refimprove|time=2015-05-08T01:02:36+00:00}}
{{noteTA
|G1=Adventure Time}}
{{Infobox television episode
| title        = 小碼哥金歡喜
| series       = [[探險活寶|探險活寶]]
| season       = 5
| episode      = 19
| production   = 1014-124<ref name=fredseason5sneak>{{cite web|last=Seibert |first=Fred |title=On the Verge of Season Five Hey, sports fans.... |url=http://adventuretimeart.frederator.com/post/34847035669/on-the-verge-of-season-five-hey-sports-fans |publisher=[[Frederator_Studios|Frederator Studios]] |accessdate=November 3, 2012 |date=November 2, 2012 |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20170105165811/http://lydiallama.tumblr.com/post/34856540419/adventuretime-on-the-verge-of-season-five-hey |archivedate=2017-01-05 |deadurl=yes }}</ref>
| story        = {{le|派屈克·麥克海爾|Patrick McHale (cartoonist)}}<br />{{le|肯特·奧斯本|Kent Osborne}}<br />[[潘得頓·沃德|潘得頓·沃德]]
| writer       = 潘得頓·沃德<br>索姆維力·薩耶風
| director     = {{le|亞當·武藤|Adam Muto}}<small>(監督)</small><br />{{le|尼克·詹寧斯|Nick Jennings (artist)}}<small>(美術)</small>
| airdate      = {{Start date|2013|5|6}}
| music    =  
| guests       = 
*{{le|詹姆斯·巴斯特|James Baxter (animator)}}飾演小碼哥金歡喜
| length       = 11分鐘
| prev         = 公主派對
| next         = 看誰先說話
| Episode list = 
{{Infobox Adventure Time season 5 episode list}}
<br>[[探險活寶各集列表|探險活寶各集列表]]
}}
〈'''小碼哥金歡喜'''〉（{{lang-en|''James Baxter the Horse''}}）是《[[探險活寶|探險活寶]]》[[探險活寶_(第五季)|第五季]]的第19集。在[[卡通頻道|卡通頻道]]2013年5月6日播出。本集以[[阿寶·馬頓斯|阿寶]]和[[酷狗老皮|老皮]]為主角。在這一集裡，阿寶和老皮偶然發現一匹馬名叫小碼哥金歡喜，擁有讓傷心的人感覺好些的能力。最終，兩人惹死者生物在葬禮的魂憤怒且幾乎被祂殺害。然而，最後一刻小碼哥金歡喜出現並打起魂的精神。

<!--==劇情==
The destruction of an egg causes BMO (voiced by [[Niki_Yang|Niki Yang]]) to start crying. Finn and Jake try to cheer the robot up, but only make matters worse. Only when James Baxter (voiced by [[James_Baxter_(animator)|James Baxter]]), a horse who neighs his name on a beach ball, arrives on the scene does BMO feel any better. Finn and Jake decide that they want to try and make people feel better, so they journey across Ooo, saying their names humorously. After interrupting a funeral, they realize that they are not making matters better.

Finn, Jake, and BMO travel to the So-Und Institute of Sound, where they attempt to make the ultimate "feel-good" sound. Eventually, Jake decides to morph into a trumpet, while Finn pretends to play him. Their plan is a success, and they cheer up a multitude of people across Ooo. However, they return to the funeral, only to anger the deceased's ghost, who attempts to kill them. Right before Finn and Jake are killed, James Baxter arrives in the nick of time and calms the ghost down.

==Production==
"James Baxter the Horse" was written and storyboarded by series creator [[Pendleton_Ward|Pendleton Ward]] and Somvilay Xayaphone, from a story developed by Ward, [[Patrick_McHale_(cartoonist)|Patrick McHale]], and [[Kent_Osborne|Kent Osborne]].<ref name=episodecredits>{{cite episode| title=James Baxter the Horse| series=Adventure Time| serieslink=|credits = [[Adam_Muto|Adam Muto]] (director); Pendleton Ward & Somvilay Xayaphone (writers) | network = [[Cartoon_Network|Cartoon Network]] |airdate=May 6, 2013| season = 5 | number = 19}}</ref> The titular character was named in honor of the British animator, James Baxter.<ref name=tumblr>{{cite web |url=http://pwcartoons.frederator.com/post/49792087796/tonight-featuring-the-work-of-guest-animator |title=Tonight. Featuring the Work of Guest Animator… James Baxter|date=May 6, 2013 |work=Pendleton Ward's Cartoon Tumblr |publisher=[[Frederator_Studios|Frederator Studios]] |accessdate=May 31, 2013}}</ref><ref name=springhorse>{{cite web|last1=Muto|first1=Adam|title=[Adam Muto reveals the story behind 'James Baxter the Horse']|url=http://new.spring.me/#!/MrMuto/q/474758072212941986|publisher=[[Spring.me|Spring.me]]|accessdate=November 8, 2014}}</ref> Baxter had at one point in time delivered a guest lecture at [[CalArts|CalArts]] when Ward was a student. In the lecture, Baxter was showing students how to animate certain situations, and someone suggested that Baxter try animating a horse balancing on a beach ball. Baxter politely declined the suggesting, instead opting to animate something "simpler".<ref name=jbthp299>McDonnell 2014, p. 299.</ref> However, according to [[Adam_Muto|Adam Muto]], the image of a horse and a beach ball fixed itself in Ward's mind.<ref name=springhorse/> Later, when ''Adventure Time'' was in production, Baxter called Ward to let him know that if needed any special animation work done, he would enjoy working on the show. Ward then met with Baxter and pitched him the initial idea behind "James Baxter the Horse"; Baxter himself though the idea was "great", and he was also flattered that Ward wanted to name the eponymous character after him.<ref name=jbthp298>McDonnell 2014, p. 298.</ref>

Baxter himself animated all instances of the horse and beach ball.<ref name=tumblr/> Normally, the show's animation is handled overseas in [[South_Korea|South Korea]] at [[Rough_Draft_Studios|Rough Draft Korea]], a sister studio of Rough Draft Studios, Inc. However, Baxter animated his scenes from his home. Because of this hurdle, Baxter was forced to animated in the center of the paper so that, during the compositing phase, his animation could be moved around if necessary. Baxter's wife, Kendra, did all the clean-up work for the animation. Inking and painting of the animation was done in South Korea.<ref name=jbthp299/>

==Reception==
"James Baxter the Horse" first aired on [[Cartoon_Network|Cartoon Network]] on May 6, 2013. The episode was viewed by 2.21 million viewers, making it the top-rated Cartoon Network series during the week of May 6–12. The episode scored a 1.4 [[Nielsen_rating|Nielsen household rating]]. Nielsen ratings are [[audience_measurement|audience measurement]] systems that determine the audience size and composition of [[broadcast_programming|television programming]] in the United States, which means that the episode was seen by 1.4 percent of all households watching television at the time of the airing.<ref>{{cite web|last=Pucci|first=Douglas|title=Cartoon Network Ratings (May 6-12, 2013)|url=http://sonofthebronx.blogspot.com/2013/05/cartoon-network-ratings-may-6-12-2013.html|work=[[Son_of_the_Bronx|Son of the Bronx]]|publisher=[[Blogger_(service)|Blogger]]|accessdate=March 1, 2014|date=May 17, 2013}}</ref> The episode first saw commercial release as part of the 2014 ''The Suitor'' DVD, which included 16 episodes from the series.<ref>{{cite web|last=Lambert|first=David|title=Adventure Time – DVD for 'Volume 6: The Suitor': Date, Cost, Box Art and More!|url=http://www.tvshowsondvd.com/news/Adventure-Time-Finn-Jake-Volume-6/19436|publisher=TVShowsOnDVD.com|accessdate=February 27, 2014|date=February 27, 2014}}</ref>

Oliver Sava of ''[[The_A.V._Club|The A.V. Club]]'' awarded the episode an "A–" and succinctly described it as "an episode all about finding the right combinations of sounds and actions to make a person happy, and it’s hard not to see it as a metacommentary on the creation of ''Adventure Time''."<ref name=avclub/> Sava praised the "audio/visual combo" that represented James Baxter and felt that he was consistently funny throughout the episode.<ref name=avclub>{{cite web|last1=Sava|first1=Oliver|title=Review: ''Adventure Time'': 'James Baxter the Horse'|url=http://www.avclub.com/tvclub/adventure-time-james-baxter-the-horse-96713|website=[[The_A.V._Club|The A.V. Club]]|publisher=[[The_Onion|The Onion]]|accessdate=November 8, 2014|date=May 6, 2013}}</ref> Later, in a review of the season five episode "Shh!", Sava wrote that "James Baxter the Horse" was an episode that "looked at this show’s musical philosophy".<ref>{{cite web|last1=Sava|first1=Oliver|title=Review: ''Adventure Time'': 'Shh!'|url=http://www.avclub.com/tvclub/adventure-time-shh-97539|website=[[The_A.V._Club|The A.V. Club]]|publisher=[[The_Onion|The Onion]]|accessdate=November 29, 2014|date=May 13, 2013}}</ref>
-->

==參考文獻==
{{Reflist|2}}

{{探險活寶}}

[[Category:探險活寶|Category:探險活寶]]
[[Category:2013年電視劇分集|Category:2013年電視劇分集]]
[[Category:虛構馬|Category:虛構馬]]
[[Category:虚构拟人化角色|Category:虚构拟人化角色]]
[[Category:探險活寶角色|Category:探險活寶角色]]