{{Unreferenced|time=2016-06-15T20:49:27+00:00}}
{{noteTA
|G1=IT
}}
'''试用软件'''（{{lang-en|'''Demoware'''}}）又叫'''演示软件'''，是[[商業軟體|商業軟體]]的试用版本，以限制时间或功能的形式免費發布（[[共享软件|共享软件]]），讓使用者能試用後購買。

*限制時間或用量：例如總運行時間、每節運行時間、安裝日數、使用日數或者使用次數。
*匯出時加上水印或字幕，通常[[圖像|圖像]]或[[视频|影片]][[編輯器|編輯器]]的试用软件會這樣限制。
*限制一些重要的功能，例如[[儲存|儲存]]、[[列印|列印]]甚至[[輸入|輸入]]。
*電子遊戲軟體的試玩版則常會限制關卡、章節、登場角色，或是無法儲存遊戲進度。

==著名的試用軟體==
*WinRAR
:[[WinRAR|WinRAR]]提供40天的試用期，但是能完全使用軟件，即使過了40天也能繼續使用，只是會有一個用戶付費的對話框，但用戶可以無視。

*Microsoft Office
:[[Microsoft_Office|Microsoft Office]]提供60天的試用期，60天后，將只能讀取文件而不能修改，就像安裝了一個檢視器。

*Minecraft

:[[Minecraft|Minecraft]]提供100分鐘的試玩期，在試玩期間只能遊玩生存模式(不能更改設定 加入伺服器 更換皮膚 加入模組 材質包...等)，100分鐘后，玩家必須購買遊戲，否則遊戲會繼續鎖定並跳出Tines up提醒玩家購買。(上述皆為Java版的試玩時間 基岩版只能試玩90分鐘的生存模式(不能更改設定 加入伺服器 更換皮膚 加入模組 材質包...等)90分鐘後也會跳出提醒玩家購買遊戲的視窗)<ref>https://forum.gamer.com.tw/C.php?bsn=18673&snA=142675</ref>

==參見==
*[[殘廢軟體|殘廢軟體]]
<!--（自英文維基百科）Note: It is my understanding that demoware, crippleware, annoyware, freeware and adware are all types of freely downloadable and shareable software (aka. shareware). Which is to say they are all ways of distinguishing between different forms shareware may take.  As such there need be no explanation of how demoware specifically is used as a distribution model because it's a given that all types of shareware use the same distribution model, which is to say they are all freely downloadable and shareable. (Yes, there are some exceptions to this rule, as all rules, but they are few and far between.) As such I leave such talk about sharing and distributing to the shareware page itself, less we just repeat ourselved over and over in each one of these entries about demoware, annoyware, etc., etc.  Please do notify me if I'm wrong.-->

{{軟件發行}}

[[Category:软件分发|Category:软件分发]]
[[Category:软件授权|Category:软件授权]]

{{Compu-soft-stub}}