{{模板:Misinformation}}
'''种族归纳'''（英语：racial profiling），又译为'''种族貌相'''<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://pansci.asia/archives/168 |title=用種族貌相判定法阻止恐怖攻擊？無效！ |access-date=2015-11-21 |archive-date=2021-01-26 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210126091209/https://pansci.asia/archives/168 |dead-url=no }}</ref>、'''种族脸谱化'''、'''種族貌相判定'''，指执法机关在判断某一类特定的[[犯罪|犯罪]]或违法行为的犯罪嫌疑人身份将[[种族|种族]]或族群特征列入考虑范围，进而可能导致在破案过程中更多地怀疑某一族群的作案嫌疑。<ref>{{cite encyclopedia |title=Profiling |encyclopedia=Merriam-Webster's Collegiate® Dictionary, Eleventh Edition |url=http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/profiling |access-date=2018-04-15 |archive-date=2021-02-19 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210219102648/https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/profiling |dead-url=no }}</ref><ref name="Warren 2009 52–63">{{Cite journal|last=Warren|first=Patricia Y.|last2=Farrell|first2=Amy|date=2009|title=The Environmental Context of Racial Profiling|journal=The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science|volume=623|pages=52–63|jstor=40375886}}</ref>

20世纪末期，此种做法由于执法机关可能滥用职权而在[[美国|美国]]引发了公众的争议。也有民权活动家提议反对警察在破案时进行种族归纳。<ref>{{Cite news|url=https://www.aclu.org/report/persistence-racial-and-ethnic-profiling-united-states|title=The Persistence Of Racial And Ethnic Profiling In The United States|work=American Civil Liberties Union|access-date=2017-03-05|language=en|archive-date=2021-03-28|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210328123228/https://www.aclu.org/report/persistence-racial-and-ethnic-profiling-united-states|dead-url=no}}</ref><ref name=":7">"Threat and Humiliation: Racial Profiling, Domestic Security, and Human Rights in the United States". U.S. Domestic Human Rights Program. ''Amnesty International USA Publications.'' September 2004, New York.</ref>

也有意见认为，在确定犯罪嫌疑人身份时使用包括种族在内的多种考虑因素，在西方国家的司法界得到广泛的支持。警察根据任何特征归纳确定犯罪嫌疑人身份是经过实践检验的常用手法，有意识地将种族因素排除在外是没有逻辑的。

美國以外，[[以色列|以色列]]因爲與[[巴勒斯坦|巴勒斯坦]]的[[以巴冲突|領土糾紛]]而遭受頻繁的恐怖襲擊是一個活用種族歸納執法的國家，其中以色列最大的民用[[本-古里安国际机场|本-古里安国际机场]]就因爲利用種族歸納法來辨別訪客的潛在威脅而獲一些媒體評為全球保安最佳的國際機場之一。<ref>[[Boston_Globe|Boston Globe]] [http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2006/08/23/what_israeli_security_could_teach_us/ What Israeli security could teach us] {{Wayback|url=http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2006/08/23/what_israeli_security_could_teach_us/ |date=20160304063218 }}, August 23, 2006</ref>

==参考链接==
{{reflist|2}}

==參考文獻==
{{refbegin|2}}
* Jack Glaser. 2014. Suspect Race: Causes and Consequences of Racial Profiling (Oxford University Press)
* Jeff Shantz. 2010. ''Racial Profiling and Borders: International, Interdisciplinary Perspectives'' (Lake Mary: Vandeplas).
* [[Ronald_Weitzer|Ronald Weitzer]] and Steven Tuch. 2006. ''Race and Policing in America: Conflict and Reform'' (New York: Cambridge University Press).
* {{cite journal | last1 = Ryberg | first1 = Jesper | year = 2011 | title = Racial Profiling And Criminal Justice | url = | journal = Journal of Ethics | volume = 15 | issue = 1/2| pages = 79–88 | doi=10.1007/s10892-010-9098-3}}
* {{cite journal | last1 = Ruiz | first1 = James | last2 = Julseth | first2 = Jason W. | last3 = Winters | first3 = Kathleen H. | year = 2010 | title = Profiling, Cajun Style: The FBI Investigation?. | url = | journal = International Journal of Police Science & Management | volume = 12 | issue = 3| pages = 401–425 | doi=10.1350/ijps.2010.12.3.173}}
* Baker, Al. "Judge Declines to Dismiss Case Alleging Racial Profiling by City Police in Street Stops." The New York Times. Nytimes.com, 31 August 2011. Web. 26 April 2012 
* Jeff Shantz. 2010. ''Racial Profiling and Borders: International, Interdisciplinary Perspectives'' (Lake Mary: Vandeplas).
{{refend}}

== 相关条目 ==
* [[种族主义|种族主义]]

==外部連結==
{{wiktionary}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20051125074613/http://www.aclunc.org/discrimination/webb-report.html An Investigation by the Joint Legislative Task Force on Government Oversight into Racial Profiling Practices by the California Highway Patrol as part of a program known as Operation Pipeline]
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20080716060754/http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bjs/crimoff.htm Bureau of Justice Criminal Offender Statistics] <!--and here {{dead link}}[http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bjs/pub/ascii/piusp01.txt ] -->
* [http://digitalcommons.law.byu.edu/jpl/vol17/iss1/6/ Rational Profiling in America's Airports] {{Wayback|url=http://digitalcommons.law.byu.edu/jpl/vol17/iss1/6/ |date=20200920035731 }} (Law Review Article)
* [http://www.cbc.ca/news/background/racial_profiling/ CBC backgrounder on racial profiling in Canada.] {{Wayback|url=http://www.cbc.ca/news/background/racial_profiling/ |date=20180801003439 }}
* [https://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/ethnic-profiling-rational-moral-framework "Ethnic Profiling: A Rational and Moral Framework"] {{Wayback|url=https://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/ethnic-profiling-rational-moral-framework |date=20201225220835 }}, by [[Robert_A._Levy|Robert A. Levy]] ([[Cato_Institute|Cato Institute]], October 2, 2001)
* [http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/ethicalperspectives/profiling.html "Racial Profiling in an Age of Terrorism"] {{Wayback|url=http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/ethicalperspectives/profiling.html |date=20160112212033 }}, By Peter Siggins ([[Markkula_Center_for_Applied_Ethics|Markkula Center for Applied Ethics]], March 12, 2002)

{{Miscarriage of justice|state=collapsed}}

[[Category:人權|Category:人權]]
[[Category:种族和法律|Category:种族和法律]]